low  w  Play  it 


THE  GAME  OF  LIFE 


AND  HOW  TO  PLAY  IT 


By 
FLORENCE  SCOVEL  SHINN 


DeVorss  &  Company 

P.  O.  Box  550 

Marina  del  Rey,  California  90294 


/" 


Copyright  1925  by 
Florence  Scovel  Shinn 


ISBN:  0-87516-257-6 


Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


CONTENTS 


The  Game 7 

The  Law  of  Prosperity 15 

The  Power  of  the  Word   22 

The  Law  of  Nonresistance 30 

The  Law  of  Karma  and  the 

Law  of  Forgiveness 39 

Casting  the  Burden  (Impressing 

THE  Subconscious) 48 

Love 56 

Intuition  or  Guidance 66 

Perfect  Self -Expression  or  the 

Divine  Design   75 

Denials  and  Affirmations 85 


Digitized  by  tine  Internet  Archive 
in  2010 


http://www.archive.org/details/gameoflifeliowtopOOshin 


THE  GAME 


Most  people  consider  life  a  battle,  but  it  is  not  a 
battle,  it  is  a  game. 

It  is  a  game,  however,  which  cannot  be  played 
successfully  without  the  knowledge  of  spiritual 
law,  and  the  Old  and  the  New  Testaments  give  the 
rules  of  the  game  with  wonderful  clearness.  Jesus 
Christ  taught  that  it  was  a  great  game  of  Giving 
and  Receiving. 

"Whatsoever  a  man  soweth  that  shall  he  also 
reap."  This  means  that  whatever  man  sends  out  in 
word  or  deed,  will  return  to  him;  what  he  gives,  he 
will  receive.  \ 

/  If  he  gives  hate,  he  will  receive  hate;  if  he  gives  N 
love,  he  will  receive  love;  if  he  gives  criticism,  he 
will  receive  criticism;  if  he  lies  he  will  be  lied  to;  if 
he  cheats  he  will  be  cheated.  We  are  taught  also, 
that  the  imaging  faculty  plays  a  leading  part  in 
,.  the  game  of  life. 
\  "Keep  thy  heart  (or  imagination)  with  all  dili- 
gence, for  out  of  it  are  the  issues  of  life."  (Prov. 
4:23.) 

This  means  that  what  man  images,  sooner  or 
later  externalizes  in  his  affairs.  I  know  of  a  man 


8         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

who  feared  a  certain  disease.  It  was  a  very  rare 
disease  and  difficult  to  get,  but  he  pictured  it  con- 
tinually and  read  about  it  until  it  manifested  in  his 
body,  and  he  died,  the  victim  of  distorted  imagi- 
ation. 

So  we  see,  to  play  successfully  the  game  of  life, 
we  must  train  the  imaging  faculty.  A  person  with 
an  imaging  faculty  trained  to  image  only  good, 
brings  into  his  life  "every  righteous  desire  of  his 
heart"  — health,  wealth,  love,  friends,  perfect  self- 
expression,  his  highest  ideals. 

The  imagination  has  been  called,  ''The  Scissors 
of  The  Mind,  "  and  it  is  ever  cutting,  cutting,  day 
by  day,  the  pictures  man  sees  there,  and  sooner  or 
later  he  meets  his  own  creations  in  his  outer  world. 
To  train  the  imagination  successfully,  man  must 
understand  the  workings  of  his  mind.  The  Greeks 
said:  "Know  Thyself." 

There  are  three  departments  of  the  mind,  the 
subconscious,  conscious  and  super  conscious.  The 
subconscious,  is  simply  power,  without  direction. 
It  is  like  steam  or  electricity,  and  it  does  what  it  is 
directed  to  do;  it  has  no  power  of  induction. 

Whatever  man  feels  deeply  or  images  clearly,  is 
impressed  upon  the  subconscious  mind,  and  car- 
ried out  in  minutest  detail. 

For  example:  a  woman  I  know,  when  a  child, 
always  "made  believe"  she  was  a  widow.  She 
"dressed  up"  in  black  clothes  and  wore  a  long 
black  veil,  and  people  thought  she  was  very  clever 
and  amusing.  She  grew  up  and  married  a  man 
with  whom  she  was  deeply  in  love.  In  a  short  time 
he  died  and  she  wore  black  and  a  sweeping  veil  for 


The  Game         9 

many  years.  The  picture  of  herself  as  a  widow  was 
impressed  upon  the  subconscious  mind,  and  in 
due  time  worked  itself  out,  regardless  of  the  havoc 
created. 

The  conscious  mind  has  been  called  mortal  or 
carnal  mind. 

It  is  the  human  mind  and  sees  life  as  it  appears 
to  he.  It  sees  death,  disaster,  sickness,  poverty  and 
limitation  of  every  kind,  and  it  impresses  the  sub- 
conscious. 

The  superconscious  mind  is  the  God  Mind  with- 
in each  man,  and  is  the  realm  of  perfect  ideas. 

In  it,  is  the  "perfect  pattern"  s^pok^n  of  by  Plato, 
The  Divine  Design;  for  there  is  a  Divine  Design  for 
each  person. 

"There  is  a  place  that  you  are  to  fill  and  no  one 
else  can  fill,  something  you  are  to  do,  which  no 
one  else  can  do.  " 

There  is  a  perfect  picture  of  this  in  the  super- 
conscious  mind.  It  usually  flashes  across  the  con- 
scious as  an  unattainable  ideal  — "something  too 
good  to  be  true." 

In  reality  it  is  man's  true  destiny  (or  destination) 
flashed  to  him  from  the  Infinite  Intelligence  which 
is  within  himself. 

Many  people,  however,  are  in  ignorance  of  their 
true  destinies  and  are  striving  for  things  and  situa- 
tions which  do  not  belong  to  them,  and  would 
only  bring  failure  and  dissatisfaction  if  attained. 

For  example:  A  woman  came  to  me  and  asked 
me  to  "speak  the  word"  that  she  would  marry  a 
certain  man  with  whom  she  was  very  much  in  love. 
(She  called  him  A.  B.) 


1 0         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

I  replied  that  this  would  be  a  violation  of  spiri- 
tual law,  but  that  I  would  speak  the  word  for  the 
right  man,  the  "divine  selection,"  the  man  who 
belonged  to  her  by  divine  right. 

I  added,  "If  A.  B.  is  the  right  man  you  can't  lose 
him,  and  if  he  isn't,  you  will  receive  his  equiva- 
lent." She  saw  A.  B.  frequently  but  no  headway 
was  made  in  their  friendship.  One  evening  she 
called,  and  said,  "Do  you  know,  for  the  last  week, 
A.  B.  hasn't  seemed  so  wonderful  to  me."  I  re- 
plied, "Maybe  he  is  not  the  divine  selection  — 
another  man  may  be  the  right  one."  Soon  after 
that,  she  met  another  man  who  fell  in  love  with 
her  at  once,  and  who  said  she  was  his  ideal.  In 
fact,  he  said  all  the  things  that  she  had  always 
wished  A.  B.  would  say  to  her. 

She  remarked,  "It  was  quite  uncanny." 

She  soon  returned  his  love,  and  lost  all  interest 
in  A.  B. 

This  shows  the  law  of  substitution.  A  right  idea 
was  substituted  for  a  wrong  one,  therefore  there 
was  no  loss  or  sacrifice  involved. 

Jesus  Christ  said,  "Seek  ye  first  the  Kingdom  of 
God  and  his  righteousness;  and  all  these  things 
shall  be  added  unto  you,"  and  he  said  the  King- 
dom was  within  man. 

The  Kingdom  is  the  realm  of  right  ideas,  or  the 
divine  pattern. 

Jesus  Christ  taught  that  man's  words  played  a 
leading  part  in  the  game  of  life.  "By  your  words  ye 
are  justified  and  by  your  words  ye  are  con- 
demned." 

Many  people  have  brought  disaster  into  their 
lives  through  idle  words. 


The  Game         1 1 

For  example:  A  woman  once  asked  me  why  her 
Ufe  was  now  one  of  poverty  of  Hmitation.  Formerly 
she  had  a  home,  was  surrounded  by  beautiful 
things  and  had  plenty  of  money.  We  found  she 
had  often  tired  of  the  management  of  her  home, 
and  had  said  repeatedly,  "I'm  sick  and  tired  of 
things  — I  wish  I  lived  in  a  trunk,"  and  she  added: 
"Today  I  am  living  in  that  trunk."  She  had  spoken 
herself  into  a  trunk.  The  subconscious  mind  has 
no  sense  of  humor  and  people  often  joke  them- 
selves into  unhappy  experiences. 

For  example:  A  woman  who  had  a  great  deal  of 
money,  joked  continually  about  "getting  ready  for 
the  poorhouse." 

In  a  few  years  she  was  almost  destitute,  having 
impressed  the  subconscious  mind  with  a  picture  of 
lack  and  limitation. 

Fortunately  the  law  works  both  ways,   and  a^ 
situation  of  lack  may  be  changed  to  one  of  plenty. 

For  example:  A  woman  came  to  me  one  hot 
summer's  day  for  a  "treatment"  for  prosperity. 
She  was  worn  out,  dejected  and  discouraged.  She 
said  she  possessed  just  eight  dollars  in  the  world.  I 
said,  "Good,  we'll  bless  the  eight  dollars  and  mul- 
tiply them  as  Jesus  Christ  multiplied  the  loaves 
and  the  fishes,"  for  He  taught  that  every  man  had 
the  power  to  bless  and  to  multiply,  to  heal  and  to 
prosper. 

She  said,  "What  shall  I  do  next?" 

I  replied,  "Follow  intuition.  Have  you  a  'hunch' 
to  do  anything,  or  to  go  anywhere?"  Intuition 
means,  intuition,  or  to  be  taught  from  within.  It  is 
man's  unerring  guide,  and  I  will  deal  more  fully 
with  its  laws  in  a  following  chapter. 


1 2  The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

The  woman  replied:  "I  don't  know  — I  seem  to 
have  a  'hunch'  to  go  home;  I've  just  enough  money 
for  carfare."  Her  home  was  in  a  distant  city  and 
was  one  of  lack  and  limitation,  and  the  reasoning 
mind  (or  intellect)  would  have  said:  "Stay  in  New 
York  and  get  work  and  make  some  money."  I 
replied,  "Then  go  home  — never  violate  a  hunch." 
I  spoke  the  following  words  for  her:  "Infinite  Spirit 

open  the  way  for  great  abundance  for .  She  is 

an  irresistible  magnet  for  all  that  belongs  to  her  by 
divine  right.  "  I  told  her  to  repeat  it  continually 
also.  She  left  for  home  immediately.  In  calling  on 
a  woman  one  day,  she  linked  up  with  an  old  friend 
of  her  family. 

Through  this  friend,  she  received  thousands  of 
dollars  in  a  most  miraculous  way.  She  has  said  to 
me  often,  "Tell  people  about  the  woman  who 
came  to  you  with  eight  dollars  and  a  hunch." 

There  is  dAw^diys  plenty  on  man's  pathway;  but  it 
can  only  be  brought  into  manifestation  through 
desire,  faith  or  the  spoken  word.  Jesus  Christ 
brought  out  clearly  that  man  must  make  the  first 
move. 

''Ask,  and  it  shall  be  given  you,  seek,  and  ye 
shall  find,  knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  you. 
(Mat.  7:7.) 

In  the  Scriptures  we  read: 

"Concerning  the  works  of  my  hands,  command 
ye  me." 

Infinite  Intelligence,  God,  is  ever  ready  to  carry 
out  man's  smallest  or  greatest  demands. 

Every  desire,  uttered  or  unexpressed,  is  a  de- 
mand. We  are  often  startled  by  having  a  wish 
suddenly  fulfilled. 


The  Game         13 

For  example:  One  Easter,  having  seen  many 
beautiful  rose -trees  in  the  florists'  windows,  I 
wished  I  would  receive  one,  and  for  an  instant  saw 
it  mentally  being  carried  in  the  door. 

Easter  came,  and  with  it  a  beautiful  rose-tree.  I 
thanked  my  friend  the  following  day,  and  told  her 
it  was  just  what  I  had  wanted. 

She  replied,  "I  didn't  send  you  a  rose-tree,  I  sent 
you  lilies!" 

The  man  had  mixed  the  order,  and  sent  me  a 
rose-tree  simply  because  I  had  started  the  law  in 
action,  and  /  had  to  have  a  rose-tree. 

Nothing  stands  between  man  and  his  highest 
ideals  and  every  desire  of  his  heart,  but  doubt  and 
fear.  When  man  can  "wish  without  worrying," 
every  desire  will  be  instantly  fulfilled. 

I  will  explain  more  fully  in  a  following  chapter 
the  scientific  reason  for  this  and  how  fear  must  be 
erased  from  the  consciousness.  It  is  man's  only 
enemy  — fear  of  lack,  fear  of  failure,  fear  of  sick- 
ness, fear  of  loss  and  a  feeling  of  insecurity  on 
some  plane.  Jesus  Christ  said:  "Why  are  ye  fearful, 
oh  ye  of  little  faith?"  (Mat.  8:26.)  So  we  can  see  we 
must  substitute  fakh  for  fear,  for  fear  is  only 
inverted  faith;  it  is  faith  in  evil  instead  of  good. 

The  object  of  the  game  of  life  is  to  see  clearly 
one's  good  and  to  obliterate  all  mental  pictures  of 
evil.  This  must  be  done  by  impressing  the  subcon- 
scious mind  with  a  realization  of  good.  A  very 
brilliant  man,  who  has  attained  great  success,  told 
me  he  had  suddenly  erased  all  fear  from  his  con- 
sciousness by  reading  a  sign  which  hung  in  a  room. 
He  saw  printed,  in  large  letters  this  statement  — 
''Why  worry,  it  will  probably  never  happen.  "  These 


1 4         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

words  were  stamped  indelibly  upon  his  subcon- 
scious mind,  and  he  has  now  a  firm  conviction  that 
only  good  can  come  into  his  life,  therefore  only 
good  can  manifest. 

In  the  following  chapter  I  will  deal  with  the 
different  methods  of  impressing  the  subconscious 
mind.  It  is  man's  faithful  servant  but  one  must  be 
careful  to  give  it  the  right  orders.  Man  has  ever  a 
silent  listener  at  his  side  — his  subconscious  mind. 

Every  thought,  every  word  is  impressed  upon  it 
and  carried  out  in  amazing  detail.  It  is  like  a  singer 
making  a  record  on  the  sensitive  disc  of  the  phono- 
graphic plate.  Every  note  and  tone  of  the  singer's 
voice  is  registered.  If  he  coughs  or  hesitates,  it  is 
registered  also.  So  let  us  break  all  the  old  bad 
records  in  the  subconscious  mind,  the  records  of 
our  lives  which  we  do  not  wish  to  keep,  and  make 
new  and  beautiful  ones. 

Speak  these  words  aloud,  with  power  and  convic- 
tion: "I  now  smash  and  demolish  (by  my  spoken 
word)  every  untrue  record  in  my  subconscious 
mind.  They  shall  return  to  the  dust-heap  of  their 
native  nothingness,  for  they  came  from  my  own 
vain  imaginings.  I  now  make  my  perfect  records 
through  the  Christ  within  —  The  records  of  Health, 
Wealth,  Love  and  perfect  self  Expression.  "  This  is 
the  square  of  life.  The  Game  completed. 

In  the  following  chapters,  I  will  show  how  man 
can  change  his  conditions  by  changing  his  words. 
Any  man  who  does  not  know  the  power  of  the 
word,  is  behind  the  times. 

"Death  and  Life  are  in  the  power  of  the  tongue.  " 

(Prov.  18:21.) 


THE  LAW  OF  PROSPERITY 

"Yea,  the  Almighty  shall  be  thy  defense 
and  thou  shalt  have  plenty  of  silver." 


One  of  the  greatest  messages  given  to  the  race 
through  the  scriptures  is  that  God  is  man's  supply 
and  that  man  can  release,  through  his  spoken 
word,  all  that  belongs  to  him  by  divine  right.  He 
must,  however,  have  perfect  faith  in  his  spoken 
word. 

Isaiah  said,  "My  word  shall  not  return  unto  me 
void,  but  shall  accomplish  that  where  unto  it  is 
sent."  We  know  now,  that  words  and  thoughts  are  a 
tremendous  vibratory  force,  ever  moulding  man's 
body  and  affairs. 

A  woman  came  to  me  in  great  distress  and  said 
she  was  to  be  sued  on  the  fifteenth  of  the  month  for 
three  thousand  dollars.  She  knew  no  way  of  getting 
the  money  and  was  in  despair. 

I  told  her  God  was  her  supply,  and  that  there  is  a 
supply  for  every  demand. 

So  I  spoke  the  word!  I  gave  thanks  that  the 
woman  would  receive  three  thousand  dollars  at  the 
right  time  in  the  right  way.  I  told  her  she  must  have 
perfect  faith,  and  act  her  perfect  faith.  The  fif- 
teenth came  but  no  money  had  materialized. 

15 


16         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

She  called  me  on  the  'phone  and  asked  what  she 
was  to  do. 

I  replied,  "It  is  Saturday,  so  they  won't  sue  you 
today,  .i^^ur  part  is  to  act  rich.*  thereby  showing 
perfect  faith  that  you  will  receive  it  by  Monday." 
She  asked  me  to  lunch  with  her  to  keep  up  her 
courage.  When  I  joined  her  at  a  restaurant,  I  said, 
"This  is  no  time  to  economize.  Order  an  expensive 
luncheon,  act  as  if  you  have  already  received  the 
three  thousand  dollars." 

"All  things  whatsoever  ye  ask  in  prayer,  believ- 
ing, ye  shall  receive."  "You  must  act  as  if  you  had 
already  received.  "The  next  morning  she  called  me 
on  the  'phone  and  asked  me  to  stay  with  her  dur- 
ing the  day.  I  said  "No,  you  are  divinely  protected 
and  God  is  never  too  late." 

In  the  evening  she  'phoned  again ,  greatly  excited 
and  said,  "My  dear,  a  miracle  has  happened!  I  was 
sitting  in  my  room  this  morning,  when  the  door- 
bell rang.  I  said  to  the  maid:  'Don't  let  anyone  in.' 
The  maid  however,  looked  out  the  window  and 
said,  'It's  your  cousin  with  the  long  white  beard.' 

So  I  said,  'Call  him  back.  I  would  like  to  see  him.' 
He  was  just  turning  the  corner,  when  he  heard  the 
maid's  voice,  and  he  came  back. 

He  talked  for  about  an  hour,  and  just  as  he  was 
leaving  he  said,  'Oh,  by  the  way,  how  are  finances?' 

I  told  him  I  needed  the  money,  and  he  said, 
'Why,  my  dear,  I  will  give  you  three  thousand 
dollars  the  first  of  the  month.' 

I  didn't  like  to  tell  him  I  was  going  to  be  sued. 
What  shall  I  do?  I  won't  receive  it  till  the  first  of  the 
month,  and  I  must  have  it  tomorrow."  I  said,  "I'll 
keep  on  'treating.'" 


The  Law  of  Prosperity         1 7 

I  said,  "Spirit  is  never  too  late.  I  give  thanks  she 
has  received  the  money  on  the  invisible  plane  and 
that  it  manifests  on  time."  The  next  morning  her 
cousin  called  her  up  and  said,  "Come  to  my  office 
this  morning  and  I  will  give  you  the  money."  That 
afternoon,  she  had  three  thousand  dollars  to  her 
credit  in  the  bank,  and  wrote  checks  as  rapidly  as 
her  excitement  would  permit. 

If  one  asks  for  success  and  prepares  for  failure, 
he  will  get  the  situationTheTias  prepared  for.  For 
example:  A  man  came  to  me  asking  me  to  speak  the 
word  that  a  certain  debt  would  be  wiped  out. 

I  found  he  spent  his  time  planning  what  he 
would  say  to  the  man  when  he  did  not  pay  his  bill, 
thereby  neutralizing  my  words.  He  should  have 
seen  himself  paying  the  debt. 

We  have  a  wonderful  illustration  of  this  in  the 
bible,  relating  to  the  three  kings  who  were  in  the 
desert,  without  water  for  their  men  and  horses. 
They  consulted  the  prophet  Elisha,  who  gave  them 
this  astonishing  message: 

"Thus  saith  the  Lord  — Ye  shall  not  see  wind, 
neither  shall  ye  see  rain,  yet  make  this  valley  full  of 
ditches." 

Man  must  prepare  for  the  thing  he  has  asked  for, 
when  there  isn't  the  slightest  sign  of  it  in  sight. 

For  example:  A  woman  found  it  necessary  to 
look  for  an  apartment  during  the  year  when  there 
was  a  great  shortage  of  apartments  in  New  York.  It 
was  considered  almost  an  impossibility,  and  her 
friends  were  sorry  for  her  and  said,  "Isn't  it  too  bad, 
you'll  have  to  store  your  furniture  and  live  in  a 
hotel."  She  replied,  ''Youneedn't  feel  sorry  for  me, 
I'm  a  superman,  and  I'll  get  an  apartment.  " 


18  The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

She  spoke  the  words:  "Infinite  Spirit,  open  the 
way  for  the  right  apartment.  "She  knew  there  was  a 
supply  for  every  demand,  and  that  she  was  "uncon- 
ditioned," working  on  the  spiritual  plane,  and  that 
"one  with  God  is  a  majority." 

She  had  contemplated  buying  new  blankets, 
when  "the  tempter,"  the  adverse  thought  or  reason- 
ing mind,  suggested,  "Don't  buy  the  blankets,  per- 
haps, after  all,  you  won't  get  an  apartment  and  you 
will  have  no  use  for  them."  She  promptly  replied  (to 
herself):  "I'll  dig  my  ditches  by  buying  the  blan- 
kets!" So  she  prepared  for  the  apartment  —  acted  as 
though  she  already  had  it. 

She  found  one  in  a  miraculous  way,  and  it  was 
given  to  her  although  there  were  over  two  hundred 
other  applicants. 

The  blankets  showed  active  faith. 

It  is  needless  to  say  that  the  ditches  dug  by  the 
three  kings  in  the  desert  were  filled  to  over-flowing. 
(Read,  II  Kings.) 

Getting  into  the  spiritual  swing  of  things  is  no 
easy  matter  for  the  average  person.  The  adverse 
thoughts  o£  doubt  arid  fear  surge  from  the  subcon^ 
srinns.  They  are  the  "army  of  the  aliens"  which 
must  be  put  to  flight.  This  explains  why  it  is  so 
often,  "darkest  before  the  dawn." 

A  big  demonstration  is  usually  preceded  by  tor- 
menting thoughts. 

Having  made  a  statement  of  high  spiritual  truth 
one  challenges  the  old  beliefs  in  the  subconscious, 
and  "error  is  exposed"  to  be  put  out. 

This  is  the  time  when  one  must  make  his  affirma- 
tions of  truth  repeatedly,   and  rejoice  and  give 


The  Law  of  Prosperity         1 9 

thanks  that  he  has  already  received.  "Before  ye  call 
I  shall  answer."  This  means  that  "every  good  and 
perfect  gift"  is  already  man's  awaiting  his  recogni- 
tion. 

Man  can  only  receive  what  he  sees  himself  receiv- 
ing. 

The  children  of  Israel  were  told  that  they  could 
have  all  the  land  they  could  see.  This  is  true  of  every 
man.  He  has  only  the  land  within  his  own  mental 
vision.  Every  great  work,  every  big  accomplish- 
ment, has  been  brought  into  manifestation 
through  holding  to  the  vision,  and  often  just  before 
the  big  achievement,  comes  apparent  failure  and 
discouragement . 

The  children  of  Israel  when  they  reached  the 
"Promised  Land,"  were  afraid  to  go  in,  for  they 
said  it  was  filled  with  giants  who  made  them  feel 
like  grasshoppers.  "And  there  we  saw  the  giants 
and  we  were  in  our  own  sight  as  grass -hoppers." 
This  is  almost  every  man's  experience. 

However,  the  one  who  knows  spiritual  law,  is 
undisturbed  by  appearance,  and  rejoices  while  he 
is  "yet  in  captivity."  That  is,  he  holds  to  his  vision 
and  gives  thanks  that  the  end  is  accomplished,  he 
has  received. 

Jesus  Christ  gave  a  wonderful  example  of  this.  He 
said  to  his  disciples:  "Say  not  ye,  there  are  yet  four 
months  and  then  cometh  the  harvest?  Behold,  I  say 
unto  you,  lift  up  your  eyes  and  look  on  the  fields; 
for  they  are  ripe  already  to  harvest."  His  clear 
vision  pierced  the  "world  of  matter"  and  he  saw 
clearly  the  fourth  dimensional  world,  things  as  they 
really  are,  perfect  and  complete  in  Divine  Mind.  So 


20         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

man  must  ever  hold  the  vision  of  his  journey's  end 
and  demand  the  manifestation  of  that  which  he  has 
already  received.  It  may  be  his  perfect  health,  love, 
supply,  self-expression,  home  or  friends. 

They  are  all  finished  and  perfect  ideas  registered 
in  Divine  Mind  (man's  own  superconscious  mind) 
and  must  come  through  him,  not  to  him.  For 
example:  A  man  came  to  me  asking  for  treatments 
for  success.  It  was  imperative  that  he  raise,  within  a 
certain  time,  fifty-thousand  dollars  for  his  business. 
The  time  limit  was  almost  up,  when  he  came  to  me 
in  despair.  No  one  wanted  to  invest  in  his  enter- 
prise, and  the  bank  had  flatly  refused  a  loan.  I 
replied:  "I  suppose  you  lost  your  temper  while  at 
the  bank,  therefore  your  power.  You  can  control 
any  situation  if  you  first  control  yourself. "  "Go  back 
to  the  bank,"  I  added,  "and  I  will  treat."  My  treat- 
ment was:  "You  are  identified  in  love  with  the  spirit 
of  everyone  connected  witli  the  bank.  Let  the 
divine  idea  come  out  of  this  situation."  He  replied, 
"Woman,  you  are  talking  about  an  impossibility. 
Tomorrow  is  Saturday;  the  bank  closes  at  twelve, 
and  my  train  won't  get  me  there  until  ten,  and  the 
time  limit  is  up  tomorrow,  and  anyway  they  won't 
do  it.  It's  too  late."  I  replied,  "God  doesn't  need  any 
time  and  is  never  too  late.  With  Him  all  things  are 
possible."  I  added,  "I  don't  know  anything  about 
business,  but  I  know  all  about  God."  He  replied:  "It 
all  sounds  fine  when  I  sit  here  listening  to  you,  but 
when  I  go  out  it's  terrible."  He  lived  in  a  distant 
city,  and  I  did  not  hear  from  him  for  a  week,  then 
came  a  letter.  It  read:  "You  were  right.  I  raised  the 
money,  and  will  never  again  doubt  the  truth  of  all 
that  you  told  me." 


The  Law  of  Prosperity         2 1 

I  saw  him  a  few  weeks  later,  and  I  said,  "What 
happened?  You  evidently  had  plenty  of  time,  after 
all."  He  replied  "My  train  was  late,  and  I  got  there 
just  fifteen  minutes  to  twelve.  I  walked  into  the 
bank  quietly  and  said,  'I  have  come  for  the  loan,' 
and  they  gave  it  to  me  without  a  question." 

It  was  the  last  fifteen  minutes  of  the  time  allotted 
to  him,  and  Infinite  Spirit  was  not  too  late.  In  this 
instance  the  man  could  never  have  demonstrated 
alone.  He  needed  someone  to  help  him  hold  to  the 
vision.  This  is  what  one  man  can  do  for  another. 

Jesus  Christ  knew  the  truth  of  this  when  he  said: 
"If  two  of  you  shall  agree  on  earth  as  touching 
anything  that  they  shall  ask,  it  shall  be  done  for 
them  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven."  One  gets 
too  close  to  his  own  affairs  and  becomes  doubtful 
and  fearful. 

The  friend  or  "healer"  sees  clearly  the  success, 
health,  or  prosperity,  and  never  wavers,  because  he 
is  not  close  to  the  situation. 

It  is  much  easier  to  "demonstrate"  for  someone 
else  than  for  one's  self,  so  a  person  should  not 
hesitate  to  ask  for  help,  if  he  feels  himself  wavering. 

A  keen  observer  of  life  once  said,  "no  man  can 
fail,  if  some  one  person  sees  him  successful."  Such  is 
the  power  of  the  vision,  and  many  a  great  man  has 
owed  his  success  to  a  wife,  or  sister,  or  a  friend  who 
"believed  in  him"  and  held  without  wavering  to  the 
pertect  pattern! 


THE  POWER  OF  THE  WORD 

"By  thy  words  thou  shalt  be  justified, 
and  by  thy  words  thou  shalt  be  condemned." 


A  person  knowing  the  power  of  the  word,  be- 
comes very  careful  of  his  conversation.  He  has  only 
to  watch  the  reaction  of  his  words  to  know  that  they 
do  "not  return  void."  Through  his  spoken  word, 
man  is  continually  making  laws  for  himself. 

I  knew  a  man  who  said,  "I  always  miss  a  car.  It 
invariably  pulls  out  just  as  I  arrive." 

His  daughter  said:  "I  always  catch  a  car.  It's  sure 
to  come  just  as  I  get  there."  This  occurred  for  years. 
Each  had  made  a  separate  law  for  himself,  one  of 
failure,  one  of  success.  This  is  the  psychology  of 
superstitions. 

The  horse-shoe  or  rabbit's  foot  contains  no 
power,  but  man's  spoken  word  and  belief  that  it 
will  bring  him  good  luck  creates  expectancy  in  the 
subconscious  mind,  and  attracts  a  "lucky  situa- 
tion." I  find  however,  this  will  not  "work"  when 
man  has  advanced  spiritually  and  knows  a  higher 
law.  One  cannot  turn  back,  and  must  put  away 
"graven  images."  For  example:  Two  men  in  my 
class  had  had  great  success  in  business  for  several 

22 


The  Power  of  the  Word         23 

months,  when  suddenly  everything  "went  to 
smash."  We  tried  to  analyze  the  situation,  and  I 
found,  instead  of  making  their  affirmations  and 
looking  to  God  for  success  and  prosperity,  they  had 
each  bought  a  "lucky  monkey."  I  said:  "Oh  I  see, 
you  have  been  trusting  in  the  lucky  monkeys  instead 
of  God."  "Put  away  the  lucky  monkeys  and  call  on 
the  law  of  forgiveness,"  for  man  has  power  to 
forgive  or  neutralize  his  mistakes. 

They  decided  to  throw  the  lucky  monkeys  down  a 
coalhole,  and  all  went  well  again.  This  does  not 
mean,  however,  that  one  should  throw  away  every 
"lucky"  ornament  or  horse-shoe  about  the  house, 
but  he  must  recognize  that  the  power  back  of  it  is 
_the  one  and  only  power,  God,  and  that  the  object 
simply  gives  him  a  feeling  of  expectancy. 

I  was  with  a  friend,  one  day,  who  was  in  deep 
despair.  In  crossing  the  street,  she  picked  up  a 
horseshoe.  Immediately,  she  was  filled  with  joy  and 
hope.  She  said  God  had  sent  her  the  horseshoe  in 
order  to  keep  up  her  courage. 

It  was  indeed,  at  that  moment,  about  the  only 
thing  that  could  have  registered  in  her  conscious- 
ness. Her  hope  became  faith,  and  she  ultimately 
made  a  wonderful  demonstration.  I  wish  to  make 
the  point  clear  that  the  men  previously  mentioned 
were  depending  on  the  monkeys,  alone,  while  this 
woman  recognized  the  power  back  of  the  horse- 
shoe. 

I  know,  in  my  own  case,  it  took  a  long  while  to  get 
out  of  a  belief  that  a  certain  thing  brought  disap- 
pointment. If  the  thing  happened,  disappointment 
invariably  followed.  I  found  the  only  way  I  could 


24  The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

make  a  change  in  the  subconscious,  was  by  assert- 
ing, "There  are  not  two  powers,  there  is  only  one 
power,  God,  therefore,  there  are  no  disappoint- 
ments, and  this  thing  means  a  happy  surprise."  I 
noticed  a  change  at  once,  and  happy  surprises 
commenced  coming  my  way. 

I  have  a  friend  who  said  nothing  could  induce 
her  to  walk  under  a  ladder.  I  said,  "If  you  are 
afraid,  you  are  giving  in  to  a  belief  in  two  powers, 
Good  and  Evil,  instead  of  one.  As  God  is  absolute, 
there  can  be  no  opposing  power, _unless  man  makes 
th^  false  of  evil  for  himself.  To  show  you  believe  in 
only  One  Power,  God,  and  that  there  is  no  power  or 
reality  in  evil,  walk  under  the  next  ladder  you  see." 
Soon  after,  she  went  to  her  bank.  She  wished  to 
open  her  box  in  the  safe-deposit  vault,  and  there 
stood  a  ladder  on  her  pathway.  It  was  impossible  to 
reach  the  box  without  passing  under  the  ladder. 
She  quailed  with  fear  and  turned  back.  She  could 
not  face  the  lion  on  her  pathway.  However,  when 
she  reached  the  street,  my  words  rang  in  her  ears 
and  she  decided  to  return  and  walk  under  it.  It  was 
a  big  moment  in  her  life,  for  ladders  had  held  her  in 
bondage  for  years.  She  retraced  her  steps  to  the 
vault,  and  the  ladder  was  no  longer  there!  This  so 
often  happens!  If  one  is  willing  to  do  a  thing  he  is 
afraid  to  do,  he  does  not  have  to. 

It  is  the  law  of  nonresistance,  which  is  so  little 
understood. 

Someone  has  said  that  courage  contains  genius 
and  magic.  Face  a  situation  fearlessly,  and  there  is 
no  situation  to  face;  it  falls  away  of  its  own  weight. 

The  explanation  is,  that  fear  attracted  the  lad- 


The  Power  of  the  Word         25 

der  on  the  woman's  pathway,  and  fearlessness  re- 
moved it. 

Thus  the  invisible  forces  are  ever  working  for 
man  who  is  always  ''pulling  the  strings"  himself 
though  he  does  not  know  it.  Owing  to  the  vibratory 
power  of  words,  whatever  man  voices,  he  begins  to 
attract.  People  who  continually  speak  of  disease, 
invariably  attract  it. 

After  man  knows  the  truth,  he  cannot  be  too 
careful  of  his  words.  For  example:  I  have  a  friend 
who  often  says  on  the  'phone,  "Do  come  to  see  me 
and  have  a  fine  old-fashioned  chat."  This  "old- 
fashioned  chat"  means  an  hour  of  about  five  hun- 
dred to  a  thousand  destructive  words,  the  principal 
topics  being  loss,  lack,  failure  and  sickness. 

I  reply:  "No,  I  thank  you,  I've  had  enough  old- 
fashioned  chats  in  my  life,  they  are  too  expensive, 
but  I  will  be  glad  to  have  a  new-fashioned  chat,  and 
talk  about  what  we  want,  not  what  we  don't  want." 
There  is  an  old  saying  that  man  only  dares  use  his 
words  for  three  purposes,  to  "heal,  bless  or  pros- 
per."  What  man  says  of  others  will  be  said  of  him, 
and  what  he  wishes  for  another,  he  is  wishing  for 
himself. 

"Curses,  like  chickens,  come  home  to  roost." 

If  a  man  wishes  someone  "bad  luck, "  he  is  sure  to 
attract  bad  luck  himself.  If  he  wishes  to  aid  some- 
one to  success,  he  is  vdshing  and  aiding  himself  to 
success. 

The  body  may  be  renewed  and  transformed 
through  the  spoken  word  and  clear  vision,  and 
disease  be  completely  vdped  out  of  the  conscious- 
ness. The  metaphysician  knows  that  all  disease  has 

8  04  VHVV^'"^'''''' 


26          The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

a  mental  correspondence,  and  in  order  to  heal  the 
body  one  must  first  "heal  the  soul." 

The  soul  is  the  subconscious  mind,  and  it  must 
be  "saved"  from  wrong  thinking. 

In  the  twenty-third  psalm,  we  read:  "He  re- 
storeth  my  soul . "  This  means  that  the  subconscious 
mind  or  soul,  must  be  restored  with  the  right  ideas, 
and  the  "mystical  marriage"  is  the  marriage  of  the 
soul  and  the  spirit,  or  the  subconscious  and  super- 
conscious  mind.  They  must  be  one.  When  the  sub- 
conscious is  flooded  with  the  perfect  ideas  of  the 
superconscious,  God  and  man  are  one.  "I  and  the 
Father  are  one."  That  is,  he  is  one  with  the  realm  of 
perfect  ideas;  he  is  the  man  made  in  God's  likeness 
and  image  (imagination)  and  is  given  power  and 
dominion  over  all  created  things,  his  mind,  body 
and  affairs. 

It  is  safe  to  say  that  all  sickness  and  unhappiness 
come  from  the  violation  of  the  law  of  love.  A  new 
commandment  I  give  unto  you,  "Love  one  anoth- 
er," and  in  the  Game  of  Life,  love  or  good-will 
takes  every  trick. 

For  example :  A  woman  I  know ,  had ,  for  years  an 
appearance  of  a  terrible  skin  disease.  The  doctors 
told  her  it  was  incurable,  and  she  was  in  despair. 
She  was  on  the  stage,  and  she  feared  she  would  soon 
have  to  give  up  her  profession,  and  she  had  no  other 
means  of  support.  She,  however,  procured  a  good 
engagement,  and  on  the  opening  night,  made  a 
great  "hit."  She  received  flattering  notices  from  the 
critics,  and  was  joyful  and  elated.  The  next  day  she 
received  a  notice  of  dismissal.  A  man  in  the  cast 
had  been  jealous  of  her  success  and  had  caused  her 
to  be  sent.^viiay.  She  felt  hatred  and  resentment 


The  Power  of  the  Word         27 

taking  complete  possession  of  her,  and  she  cried 
out,  "Oh  God  don't  let  me  hate  that  man."  That 
night  she  worked  for  hours  "in  the  silence." 

She  said,  "I  soon  came  into  a  very  deep  silence.  I 
seemed  to  be  at  peace  with  myself,  with  the  man, 
and  with  the  whole  world.  I  continued  this  for  two 
following  nights,  and  on  the  third  day  I  found  I  was 
healed  completely  of  the  skin  diseasel"  In  asking  for 
love,  or  good  will,  she  had  fulfilled  the  law,  ("for 
love  is  the  fulfilling  of  the  law")  and  the  disease 
(which  came  from  subconscious  resentment)  was 
wiped  out. 

Continual  criticism  produces  rheumatism,  as 
critical,  inharmonious  thoughts  cause  unnatural 
deposits  in  the  blood,  which  settle  in  the  joints. 

False  growths  are  caused  by  jealousy,  hatred, 
unforgiveness,  fear,  etc.  Every  disease  is  caused  by 
a  mind  not  at  ease.  I  said  once,  in  my  class,  "There 


is  no  use  asking  anyone  'What's  the  matter  with 
you?'  we  might  just  as  well  say,  'Who's  the  matter 
with  you?'  "  Unforgiveness  is  the  most  prolific  cause 
of  disease.  It  will  harden  arteries  or  liver,  and  affect 
the  eye -sight.  In  its  train  are  endless  ills. 

I  called  on  a  woman,  one  day,  who  said  she  was 
ill  from  having  eaten  a  poisoned  oyster.  I  replied, 
"Oh,  no,  the  oyster  was  harmless,  you  poisoned  the 
oyster.  What's  the  matter  with  you?"  She  answered, 
"Oh  about  nineteen  people."  She  had  quarrelled 
with  nineteen  people  and  had  become  so  inhar- 
monious that  she  attracted  the  wrong  oyster. 

Any  inharmony  on  the  external,  indicates  there 
is  mental  inharmony.  "As  the  within,  so  the  with- 
out." 

Man's  only  enemies  are  within  himself.  "And  a 


28         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

man's  foes  shall  be  they  of  his  own  household." 
Personality  is  one  of  the  last  enemies  to  be  over- 
come, as  this  planet  is  taking  its  initiation  in  love.  It 
was  Christ's  message  — "Peace  on  Earth,  good  will 
towards  man."  The  enlightened  man,  therefore, 
endeavors  to  perfect  himself  upon  his  neighbor.  His 
work  is  with  himself,  to  send  out  goodwill  and 
blessings  to  every  man,  and  the  marvelous  thing  is, 
that  if  one  blesses  a  man  he  has  no  power  to  harm 
him. 

For  example:  A  man  came  to  me  asking  to 
"treat"  for  success  in  business.  He  was  selling 
machinery,  and  a  rival  appeared  on  the  scene  with 
what  he  proclaimed,  was  a  better  machine,  and  my 
friend  feared  defeat.  I  said,  "First  of  all,  we  must 
wipe  out  all  fear,  and  know  that  God  protects  your 
interests,  and  that  the  divine  idea  must  come  out  of 
the  situation.  That  is,  the  right  machine  will  be 
sold,  by  the  right  man,  to  the  right  man."  And  I 
added,  "Don't  hold  one  critical  thought  towards 
that  man.  Bless  him  all  day,  and  be  willing  not  to 
sell  your  machine,  if  it  isn't  the  divine  idea."  So  he 
went  to  the  meeting,  fearless  and  nonresistant,  and 
blessing  the  other  man.  He  said  the  outcome  was 
very  remarkable.  The  other  man's  machine  refused 
to  work,  and  he  sold  his  without  the  slightest  diffi- 
culty. ^But  I  say  unto  you,  love  your  enemies,  bless 
them  that  curse  you,  do  good  to  them  that  hate 
you,  and  pray  for  them  which  spitefully  use  you  and 
persecute  you./ 

/^Good-will  produces  a  great  aura  of  protection 
about  the  one  who  sends  it,  and  "No  weapon  that  is 


The  Power  of  the  Word         29 

formed  against  him  shall  prosper.  "In  other  words, 
love  and  good-will  destroy  the  enemies  within  one's 
self,  therefore,  one  has  no  enemies  on  the  external! 
''There  is  peace  on  earth  for  him  who  sends  good- 
will to  man!" J 


THE  LAW  OF  NONRESISTANCE 

"Resist  not  evil.  Be  not  overcome  of  evil, 
but  overcome  evil  with  good." 


Nothing  on  earth  can  resist  an  absolutely  non- 
resistant  pei*son. 

The  Chinese  say  that  water  is  the  most  powerful 
element,  because  it  is  perfectly  nonresistant.  It  can 
wear  away  a  rock,  and  sweep  all  before  it. 

Jesus  Christ  said,  "Resist  not  evil,"  for  He  knew  in 
reality,  there  is  no  evil,  therefore  nothing  to  resist. 
Evil  has  come  of  man's  "vain  imagination,"  or  a 
belief  in  two  powers,  good  and  evil. 

There  is  an  old  legend,  that  Adam  and  Eve  ate  of 
"Maya  the  Tree  of  Illusion,"  and  saw  two  powers 
instead  of  one  power,  God. 

Therefore,  evil  is  a  false  law  man  has  made  for 
himself,  through  psychoma  or  soul  sleep.  Soul  sleep 
means,  that  man's  soul  has  been  hypnotized  by  the 
race  belief  (of  sin,  sickness  and  death,  etc.)  which  is 
carnal  or  mortal  thought,  and  his  affairs  have  out- 
pictured  his  illusions. 

We  have  read  in  a  preceding  chapter,  that  man's 
soul  is  his  subconscious  mind,  and  whatever  he  feels 
deeply,  good  or  bad,  is  outpictured  by  that  faithful 
servant.  His  body  and  affairs  show  forth  what  he 

30 


The  Law  of  Nonresistance         3 1 

has  been  picturing.  The  sick  man  has  pictured  sick- 
ness, the  poor  man,  poverty,  the  rich  man,  wealth. 

People  often  say,  "why  does  a  little  child  attract 
illness,  when  it  is  too  young  even  to  know  what  it 
means?" 

I  answer  that  children  are  sensitive  and  receptive 
to  the  thoughts  of  others  about  them,  and  often 
outpicture  the  fears  of  their  parents. 

I  heard  a  metaphysician  once  say,  "If  you  do  not 
run  your  subconscious  mind  yourself,  someone  else 
will  run  it  for  you." 

Mothers  often,  unconsciously,  attract  illness  and 
disaster  to  their  children,  by  continually  holding 
them  in  thoughts  of  fear,  and  watching  for  symp- 
toms. 

For  example:  A  friend  asked  a  woman  if  her  little 
girl  had  had  the  measles.  She  replied  promptly, 
"not  yet!"  This  implied  that  she  was  expecting  the 
illness,  and,  therefore,  preparing  the  way  for  what 
she  did  not  want  for  herself  and  child. 

However,  the  man  who  is  centered  and  estab- 
lished in  right  thinking,  the  man  who  sends  out 
only  good-will  to  his  fellow-man,  and  who  is  with- 
out fear,  cannot  be  touched  or  influenced  by  the 
negative  thoughts  of  others.  In  fact,  he  could  then 
receive  only  good  thouglits,  as  he  himself,  sends 
forth  only  good  thoughts. 

Resistance  is  Hell,  for  it  places  man  in  a  "state  of 
torment." 

A  metaphysician  once  gave  me  a  wonderful  reci- 
pe for  taking  every  trick  in  the  game  of  life,  it  is  the 
acme  of  nonresistance.  He  gave  it  in  this  way;  "At 
one  time  in  my  life,  I  baptized  children,  and  of 
course,  they  had  many  names.  Now  I  no  longer 


32         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

baptize  children,  but  I  baptize  events,  but  /  give 
every  event  the  same  name.  If  I  have  a  failure  I 
baptize  it  success,  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and  of 
the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost!" 

In  this,  we  see  the  great  law  of  transmutation, 
founded  on  nonresistance.  Through  his  spoken 
word,  every  failure  was  transmuted  into  success. 

For  example:  A  woman  who  required  money, 
and  who  knew  the  spiritual  law  of  opulence,  was 
thrown  continually  in  a  business-way,  with  a  man 
who  made  her  feel  very  poor.  He  talked  lack  and 
limitation  and  she  commenced  to  catch  his  poverty 
thoughts,  so  she  disliked  him,  and  blamed  him  for 
her  failure.  She  knew  in  order  to  demonstrate  her 
supply,  she  must  first  feel  that  she  had  received — a 
feeling  of  opulence  must  precede  its  manifestation. 

It  dawned  upon  her,  one  day,  that  she  was  resist- 
ing the  situation,  and  seeing  two  powers  instead  of 
one.  So  she  blessed  the  man  and  baptized  the 
situation  "Success"!  She  affirmed,  "As  there  is  only 
one  power,  God,  this  man  is  here  for  my  good  and 
my  prosperity"  (just  what  he  did  not  seem  to  be 
there  for).  Soon  after  that  she  met,  through  this 
man,  a  woman  who  gave  her  for  a  service  rendered, 
several  thousand  dollars,  and  the  man  moved  to  a 
distant  city,  and  faded  harmoniously  from  her  life. 
Make  the  statement,  "Every  man  is  a  golden  link  in 
the  chain  of  my  good,"  for  all  men  are  God  in 
manifestation,  awaiting  the  opportunity  given  by 
man,  himself,  to  serve  the  divine  plan  of  his  life. 

"Bless  your  enemy,  and  you  rob  him  of  his 
ammunition."  His  arrows  will  be  transmuted  into 
blessings. 


The  Law  of  Nonresistance         33  y  n 


o— 


This  law  is  true  of  nations  as  well  as  individuals.  ^^^   r>.^  e- 
Bless  a  nation,  send  love  and  good- will  to  every  ^  \y  c-^    ^^ 
inhabitant,  and  it  is  robbed  of  its  power  to  harm.  '    [    ^    O^ 

Man  can  only  get  the  right  idea  of  nonresistance ,      W  ^\ 
through  spiritual  understanding.  My  students  have  ^' 

often  said:  "I  don't  want  to  be  a  door-mat."  I  reply 
"when  you  use  nonresistance  with  wisdom,  no  one 
will  ever  be  able  to  walk  over  you." 

Another  example:  One  day  I  was  impatiently 
awaiting  an  important  telephone  call.  I  resisted 
every  call  that  came  in  and  made  no  out-going  calls 
myself,  reasoning  that  it  might  interfere  with  the 
one  I  was  awaiting. 

Instead  of  saying,  "Divine  ideas  never  conflict, 
the  call  will  come  at  the  right  time,"  leaving  it  to 
Infinite  Intelligence  to  arrange,  I  commenced  to 
manage  things  myself— I  made  the  battle  mine, 
not  God's  and  remained  tense  and  anxious.  The 
bell  did  not  ring  for  about  an  hour,  and  I  glanced 
at  the  'phone  and  found  the  receiver  had  been  off 
that  length  of  time,  and  the  'phone  was  discon- 
nected. My  anxiety,  fear  and  belief  in  interference, 
had  brought  on  a  total  eclipse  of  the  telephone. 
Realizing  what  I  had  done,  I  commenced  blessing 
the  situation  at  once;  I  baptized  it  "success,"  and 
affirmed,  "I  cannot  lose  any  call  that  belongs  to  me 
by  divine  right;  I  am  under  grace,  and  not  under 
law. " 

A  friend  rushed  out  to  the  nearest  telephone,  to 
notify  the  Company  to  reconnect. 

She  entered  a  crowded  grocery,  but  the  proprie- 
tor left  his  customers  and  attended  to  the  call 
himself.  My  'phone  was  connected  at  once,  and  two 


34          The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

minutes  later,  I  received  a  very  important  call,  and 
about  an  hour  afterward,  the  one  I  had  been 
awaiting. 

One 's  ships  come  in  over  a  calm  sea. 

So  long  as  man  resists  a  situation,  he  will  have  it 


with  him.  If  he  runs  awayTronTit,  it  v/ill  run  after 
him. 

For  example:  I  repeated  this  to  a  woman  one 
day,  and  she  replied,  "How  true  that  is!  I  was 
unhappy  at  home,  I  disliked  my  mother,  who  was 
critical  and  domineering;  so  I  ran  away  and  was 
married  — but  I  married  my  mother,  for  my  hus- 
band was  exactly  like  my  mother,  and  I  had  the 
same  situation  to  face  again."  "Agree  with  thine 
adversary  quickly." 

That  means,  agree  that  the  adverse  situation  is 
good,  be  undisturbed  by  it,  and  it  falls  away  of  its 
own  weight.  "None  of  these  things  move  me,"  is  a 
wonderful  affirmation. 

The  inharmonious  situation  comes  from  some 
inharmony  within  man  himself. 

When  there  is,  in  him,  no  emotional  response  to 
an  inharmonious  situation,  it  fades  away  forever, 
from  his  pathway. 

So  we  see  man's  work  is  ever  with  himself. 

People  have  said  to  me,  "Give  treatments  to 
change  my  husband,  or  my  brother."  I  reply,  "No, 
I  will  give  treatments  to  change  you;  when  you 
change,  your  husband  and  your  brother  will 
change." 


The  Law  of  Nonresistance         35 

One  of  my  students  was  in  the  habit  of  lying.  I 
told  her  it  was  a  failure  method  and  if  she  lied,  she 
would  be  lied  to.  She  replied,  "I  don't  care,  I  can't 
possibly  get  along  without  lying." 

One  day  she  was  speaking  on  the  'phone  to  a  man 
with  whom  she  was  very  much  in  love.  She  turned  to 
me  and  said,  "I  don't  trust  him,  I  know  he's  lying  to 
me."  I  replied,  "Well,  you  lie  yourself,  so  someone 
has  to  lie  to  you,  and  you  will  be  sure  it  will  be  just 
the  person  you  want  the  truth  from."  Some  time 
after  that,  I  saw  her,  and  she  said,  "I'm  cured  of 
lying." 

I  questioned:  "What  cured  you?" 

She  replied:  "I  have  been  living  with  a  woman 
who  lied  worse  than  I  didl" 

One  is  often  cured  of  his  faults  by  seeing  them  in 
otHers. 

Life  is  a  mirror,  and  we  find  only  ourselves 
reflected  in  our  associates. 

Living  in  the  past  is  a  failure  method  and  a 
violation  of  spiritual  law. 

Jesus  Christ  said,  "Behold,  now  is  the  accepted 
time."  "Now  is  the  day  of  Salvation." 

Lot's  wife  looked  back  and  was  turned  into  a 
pillar  of  salt. 

The  robbers  of  time  are  the  past  and  the  future. 
Man  should  bless  the  past,  and  forget  it,  if  it  keeps 
him  in  bondage,  and  bless  the  future,  knowing  it 
has  in  store  for  him  endless  joys,  but  \i\e  fully  m  the 
now. 

For  example:  A  woman  came  to  me,  complain- 
ing that  she  had  no  money  with  which  to  buy 


36         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

Christmas  gifts.  She  said,  "Last  year  was  so  differ- 
ent; I  had  plenty  of  money  and  gave  lovely  presents, 
and  this  year  I  have  scarcely  a  cent." 

I  replied,  "You  will  never  demonstrate  money 
while  you  are  pathetic  and  live  in  the  past.  Live 
fully  in  the  now,  and  get  ready  to  give  Christmas 
presents.  Dig  your  ditches,  and  the  money  will 
come."  She  exclaimed,  "I  know  what  to  do!  I  will 
buy  some  tinsel  twine,  Christmas  seals  and  wrap- 
ping paper."  I  replied,  "Do  that,  and  the  presents 
will  come  and  stick  themselves  to  the  Christmas 
seals.  " 

This  too,  was  showing  financial  fearlessness  and 
faith  in  God,  as  the  reasoning  mind  said,  "Keep 
every  cent  you  have,  as  you  are  not  sure  you  will  get 
any  more." 

She  bought  the  seals,  paper  and  twine,  and  a  few 
days  before  Christmas,  received  a  gift  of  several 
hundred  dollars.  Buying  the  seals  and  twine  had 
impressed  the  subconscious  with  expectancy,  and 
opened  the  way  for  the  manifestation  of  the  money. 
She  purchased  all  the  presents  in  plenty  of  time. 

Man  must  live  suspended  in  the  moment. 

"Look  well,  therefore,  to  this  Day!  Such  is  the 
salutation  of  the  Dawn." 

He  must  be  spiritually  alert,  ever  awaiting  his 
leads,  taking  advantage  of  every  opportunity. 

One  day,  I  said  continually  (silently),  "Infinite 
Spirit,  don't  let  me  miss  a  trick,"  and  something 
very  important  was  told  to  me  that  evening.  It  is 
most  necessary  to  begin  the  day  with  right  words. 

Make  an  affirmation  immediately  upon  waking. 

For  example: 

"Thy  will  be  done  this  day!  Today  is  a  day  of 


The  Law  of  Nonresistance         37 

completion;  I  give  thanks  for  this  perfect  day, 
miracle  shall  follow  miracle  and  wonders  shall 
never  cease. " 

Make  this  a  habit,  and  one  will  see  wonders  and 
miracles  come  into  his  life. 

One  morning  I  picked  up  a  book  and  read, 
"Look  with  wonder  at  that  which  is  before  you!"  It 
seemed  to  be  my  message  for  the  day,  so  I  repeated 
again  and  again,  "Look  with  wonder  at  that  which 
is  before  you." 

At  about  noon,  a  large  sum  of  money,  was  given 
me,  which  I  had  been  desiring  for  a  certain  pur- 
pose. 

In  a  following  chapter,  I  will  give  affirmations 
that  I  have  found  most  effective.  However,  one 
should  never  use  an  affirmation  unless  it  is  abso- 
lutely satisfying  and  convincing  to  his  own  con- 
sciousness, and  often  an  affirmative  is  changed  to 
suit  different  people. 

For  example:  The  following  has  brought  success 
to  many: 

"I  have  a  wonderful  work,  in  a  wonderful  way,  I 
give  wonderful  service,  for  wonderful  pay!" 

I  gave  the  first  two  lines  to  one  of  my  students, 
and  she  added  the  last  two. 

It  made  a  most  powerful  statement,  as  there 
should  always  be  perfect  payment  for  perfect  ser- 
vice, and  a  rhyme  sinks  easily  into  the  subcon- 
scious. She  went  about  singing  it  aloud  and  soon 
did  receive  wonderful  work  in  a  wonderful  way, 
and  gave  wonderful  service  for  wonderful  pay. 

Another  student,  a  business  man,  took  it,  and 
changed  the  word  work  to  business. 

He  repeated,  "I  have  a  wonderful  business,  in  a 


38         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

wonderful  way,  and  I  give  wonderful  service  for 
wonderful  pay."  That  afternoon  he  made  a  forty- 
one-thousand  dollar  deal,  though  there  had  been 
no  activity  in  his  affairs  for  months. 

Every  affirmation  must  be  carefully  worded  and 
completely  "cover  the  ground." 

For  example:  I  knew  a  woman,  who  was  in  great 
need,  and  made  a  demand  for  work.  She  received  a 
great  deal  of  work,  but  was  never  paid  anything. 
She  now  knows  to  add,  "wonderful  service  for 
wonderful  pay." 

It  is  man's  divine  right  to  have  plenty!  More  than 
enough! 

"His  barns  should  be  full,  and  his  cup  should 
flow  over!"  This  is  God's  idea  for  man,  and  when 
man  breaks  down  the  barriers  of  lack  in  his  own 
consciousness,  the  Golden  Age  will  be  his,  and 
every  righteous  desire  of  his  heart  fulfilled! 


THE  LAW  OF  KARMA 

and 

THE  LAW  OF  FORGIVENESS 


Man  receives  only  that  which  he  gives.  The 
Game  of  Life  is  a  game  of  boomerangs.  Man's 
thoughts,  deeds  and  words,  return  to  him  sooner  or 
later,  with  astounding  accuracy. 

This  is  the  law  of  Karma,  which  is  Sanskrit  for 
"Comeback."  "Whatsoever  a  man  soweth,  that 
shall  he  also  reap." 

For  example:  A  friend  told  me  this  story  of 
herself,  illustrating  the  law.  She  said,  "I  make  all 
my  Karma  on  my  aunt,  whatever  I  say  to  her,  some 
one  says  to  me.  I  am  often  irritable  at  home,  and 
one  day,  said  to  my  aunt,  who  was  talking  to  me 
during  dinner.  'No  more  talk,  I  wish  to  eat  in 
peace. ' " 

"The  following  day,  I  was  lunching  with  a 
woman  with  whom  I  wished  to  make  a  great  im- 
pression, I  was  talking  animatedly,  when  she  said: 
'No  more  talk,  I  wish  to  eat  in  peace!' " 

My  friend  is  high  in  consciousness,  so  her  Karma 

39 


40         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

returns  much  more  quickly  than  to  one  on  the 
mental  plane. 

The  more  man  knows,  the  more  he  is  responsible 
for,  and  a  person  with  a  knowledge  of  Spiritual 
Law,  which  he  does  not  practice,  suffers  greatly,  in 
consequence.  "The  fear  of  the  Lord  (law)  is  the 
beginning  of  wisdom."  If  we  read  the  word  Lord, 
law,  it  will  make  many  passages  in  the  Bible  much 
clearer. 

"Vengeance  is  mine,  I  will  repay,  saith  the  Lord" 
(law) .  It  is  the  law  which  takes  vengeance ,  not  God . 
God  sees  man  perfect,  "created  in  his  own  image," 
(imagination)  and  given  "power  and  dominion." 

This  is  the  perfect  idea  of  man,  registered  in 
Divine  Mind,  awaiting  man's  recognition;  for  man 
can  only  be  what  he  sees  himself  to  be,  and  only 
attain  what  he  sees  himself  attaining. 

"Nothing  ever  happens  without  an  on-looker"  is 
an  ancient  saying. 

Man  sees  first  his  failure  or  success,  his  joy  or 
sorrow,  before  it  swings  into  visibility  from  the 
scenes  set  in  his  own  imagination.  We  have  ob- 
served this  in  the  mother  picturing  disease  for  her 
child,  or  a  woman  seeing  success  for  her  husband. 

Jesus  Christ  said,  "And  ye  shall  know  the  truth 
and  the  truth  shall  make  you  free." 

So,  we  see  freedom  (from  all  unhappy  condi- 
tions;  comes  through  knowledge  —  a  knowledge  of 
Spiritual  Law, 


Obedience  precedes  authority,  and  the  law  obeys 
man  when  he  obeys  the  law.  The  law  of  electricity 
must  be  obeyed  before  it  becomes  man's  servant. 


The  Law  of  Karma  and  The  Law  of  Forgiveness         4 1 

When  handled  ignorantly,  it  becomes  man's  dead- 
ly foe.  So  with  the  laws  of  Mind! 

For  example:  A  woman  with  a  strong  personal 
will ,  wished  she  owned  a  house  which  belonged  to 
an  acquaintance,  and  she  often  made  mental  pic- 
tures of  herself  living  in  the  house.  In  the  course  of 
time,  the  man  died  and  she  moved  into  the  house. 
Several  years  afterwards,  coming  into  the  knowl- 
edge of  Spiritual  Law,  she  said  to  me:  "Do  you 
think  I  had  anything  to  do  with  that  man's  death?" 
I  replied:  "Yes,  your  desire  was  so  strong,  every- 
thing made  way  for  it,  but  you  paid  your  Karmic 
debt.  Your  husband,  whom  you  loved  devotedly, 
died  soon  after,  and  the  house  was  a  white  elephant 
on  your  hands  for  years." 

The  original  owner,  however,  could  not  have 
been  affected  by  her  thoughts  had  he  been  positive 
in  the  truth,  nor  her  husband,  but  they  were  both 
under  Kanriic  law.  The  woman  should  have  said 
(feeling  the  great  desire  for  the  house),  "Infinite 
Intelligence,  give  me  the  right  house,  equally  as 
charming  as  this,  the  house  which  is  mine  by  divine 
right. " 

The  divine  selection  would  have  given  perfect 
satisfaction  and  brought  good  to  all.  The  divine 
pattern  is  the  only  safe  pattern  to  work  by. 

Desire  is  a  tremendous  force,  and  must  be  di- 
rected  in  the  right  channelf,~dr  cHaos  ensues.    " 

In  demonstrating,  the  most  important  step  is  the 
first  step,  to  ''ask  aright."  — — =    ^        i. 

Man  should  always  demand  ojily  that  which  is  his 
by  divine  right. 


42         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

To  go  back  to  the  illustration:  Had  the  woman 
taken  this  attitude:  "If  this  house,  I  desire,  is  mine, 
I  cannot  lose  it,  if  it  is  not,  give  me  its  equivalent," 
the  man  might  have  decided  to  move  out,  harmoni- 
ously (had  it  been  the  divine  selection  for  her)  or 
another  house  would  have  been  substituted.  Any- 
thing forced  into  manifestation  through  personal 
will,  is  always  "ill-got,"  and  has  "ever  bad  success." 

Man  is  admonished,  'My  will  be  done  not  thine , 
and  the  curious  thing  is,  man  always  gets  just  what 
he  desires  when  he  does  relinquish  personal  will, 
thereby   enabling   Infinite   Intelligence    to    work 
through  him. 

"Stand  ye  still  and  see  the  salvation  of  the  Lord" 
(law). 

For  example:  A  woman  came  to  me  in  great 
distress.  Her  daughter  had  determined  to  take  a 
very  hazardous  trip,  and  the  mother  was  filled  with 
fear. 

She  said  she  had  used  every  argument,  had 
pointed  out  the  dangers  to  be  encountered,  and 
forbidden  her  to  go,  but  the  daughter  became 
more  and  more  rebellious  and  determined.  I  said  to 
the  mother,  "You  are  forcing  your  personal  will 
upon  your  daughter,  which  you  have  no  right  to  do, 
and  your  fear  of  the  trip  is  only  attracting  it,  for 
man  attracts  what  he  fears."  I  added.  Let  go,  and 
take  your  mental  hands  off;  put  it  in  God's  Hands, 
and  use  this  statement:''  "I  put  this  situation  in  the 
hands  of  Infinite  Love  and  Wisdom;  if  this  trip  is 
the  Divine  plan,  I  bless  it  and  no  longer  resist,  but  if 
it  is  not  divinely  planned,  I  give  thanks  that  it  is  now 
dissolved  and  dissipated./ A  day  or  two  after  that. 


The  Law  of  Karma  and  The  Law  of  Forgiveness         43 

her  daughter  said  to  her,  "Mother,  I  have  given  up 
the  trip,"  and  the  situation  returned  to  its  "native 
nothingness," 

It  is  learning  to  "stand  still,"  v^hich  seems  so  dif- 
ficult for  man.  I  have  dealt  more  fully  with  this 
law  in  the  chapter  on  nonresistance. 

I  will  give  another  example  of  sowing  and  reap- 
ing, which  came  in  the  most  curious  way. 

A  woman  came  to  me  saying,  she  had  received  a 
counterfeit  twenty-dollar  bill,  given  to  her  at  the 
bank.  She  was  much  disturbed,  for,  she  said,  "The 
people  at  the  bank  will  never  acknowledge  their 
mistake." 

I  replied,  "Let  us  analyze  the  situation  and  find 
out  why  you  attracted  it."  She  thought  a  few  mo- 
ments and  exclaimed:  "I  know  it,  I  sent  a  friend  a 
lot  of  stagemoney,  just  for  a  joke."  So  the  law  had 
sent  her  some  stagemoney,  for  it  doesn't  know 
anything  about  jokes. 

I  said,  "Now  we  will  call  on  the  law  of  forgive- 
ness, and  neutralize  the  situation." 

Christianity  is  founded  upon  the  law  of  forgive- 
ness —  Christ  has  redeemed  us  from  the  curse  of  the 
Karmic  law,  and  the  Christ  within  each  man  is  his 
Redeemer  and  Salvation  from  all  inharmonious 
conditions. 

So  I  said:  "Infinite  Spirit,  we  call  on  the  law  of 
forgiveness  and  give  thanks  that  she  is  under  grace 
and  not  under  law,  and  cannot  lose  this  twenty 
dollars  which  is  hers  by  divine  right." 

"Now,"  I  said,  "Go  back  to  the  bank  and  tell 
them,  fearlessly,  that  it  was  given  you,  there  by 
mistake." 


44         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

She  obeyed,  and  to  her  surprise,  they  apologized 
and  gave  her  another  bill ,  treating  her  most  courte- 
ously. 

So  knowledge  of  the  Law  gives  man  power  to 
"rub  out  his  mistakes."  Man  cannot  force  the  ex- 
ternal to  be  what  he  is  not. 

If  he  desires  riches,  he  must  be  rich  first  in  con- 
sciousness. 

For  example:  A  woman  came  to  me  asking  treat- 
ment for  prosperity.  She  did  not  take  much  interest 
in  her  household  affairs,  and  her  home  was  in  great 
disorder. 

I  said  to  her,  "If  you  wish  to  be  rich,  you  must  be 
orderly.  All  men  with  great  wealth  are  orderly  — 
and  order  is  heaven's  first  law."  I  added,  "You  will 
never  become  rich  with  a  burnt  match  in  the  pin- 
cushion." 

She  had  a  good  sense  of  humor  and  commenced 
immediately,  putting  her  house  in  order.  She  rear- 
ranged furniture,  straightened  out  bureau 
drawers,  cleaned  rugs,  and  soon  made  a  big  finan- 
cial demonstration  — a  gift  from  a  relative.  The 
woman,  herself,  became  made  over,  and  keeps 
herself  keyed-up  financially,  by  being  ever  watch- 
ful of  the  external  and  expecting  prosperity,  know- 
ing God  is  her  supply. 

Many  people  are  in  ignorance  of  the  fact  that 
gifts  and  things  are  investments,  and  that  hoard- 
ing and  saving  invariably  lead  to  loss. 

"There  is  that  scattereth  and  yet  m'creaseth;  and 
there  is  that  withholdeth  more  than  is  meet,  but  it 
tendeth  to  poverty." 

For  example:  I  knew  a  man  who  wanted  to  buy  a 


The  Law  of  Karma  and  The  Law  of  Forgiveness        45 

fur-lined  overcoat.  He  and  his  wife  went  to  various 
shops,  but  there  was  none  he  wanted.  He  said  they 
were  all  too  cheap-looking.  At  last,  he  was  shown 
one,  the  salesman  said  was  valued  at  a  thousand 
dollars,  but  which  the  manager  would  sell  him  for 
five-hundred  dollars,  as  it  was  late  in  the  season. 

His  financial  possessions  amounted  to  about 
seven  hundred  dollars.  The  reasoning  mind  would 
have  said,  "You  can't  afford  to  spend  nearly  all  you 
have  on  a  coat,"  but  he  was  very  intuitive  and  never 
reasoned. 

He  turned  to  his  wife  and  said,  "If  I  get  this  coat, 
I'll  make  a  ton  of  money!"  So  his  wife  consented, 
weakly. 

About  a  month  later,  he  received  a  ten-thou- 
sand-dollar commission.  The  coat  made  him  feel  so 
rich,  it  linked  him  with  success  and  prosperity; 
without  the  coat,  he  would  not  have  received  the 
commission.  It  was  an  investment  paying  large 
dividends! 

If  man  ignores  these  leadings  to  spend  or  to  give, 
the  same  amount  of  money  will  go  in  an  uninterest- 
ing or  unhappy  way. 

For  example:  A  woman  told  me,  on  Thanksgiv- 
ing Day,  she  informed  her  family  that  they  could 
not  afford  a  Thanksgiving  dinner.  She  had  the 
money,  but  decided  to  save  it. 

A  few  days  later,  someone  entered  her  room  and 
took  from  the  bureau  drawer  the  exact  amount  the 
dinner  would  have  cost. 

The  law  always  stands  back  of  the  man  who 
spends  fearlessly,  with  wisdom. 

For  example:  One  of  my  students  was  shopping 


46          The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

with  her  Httle  nephew.  The  child  clamored  for  a 
toy,  which  she  told  him  she  could  not  afford  to  buy. 

She  realized  suddenly  that  she  was  seeking  lack, 
and  not  recognizing  God  as  her  supply! 

So  she  bought  the  toy,  and  on  her  way  home, 
picked  up,  in  the  street,  the  exact  amount  of -money 
she  had  paid  for  it. 

Man's  supply  is  inexhaustible  and  unfailing 
when  fully  trusted,  but  faith  or  trust  must  precede 
the  demonstration.  "According  to  your  faith  be  it 
unto  you."  "Faith  is  the  substance  of  things  hoped 
for,  the  evidence  of  things  not  seen  —  "  for  faith 
holds  the  vision  steady,  and  the  adverse  pictures  are 
dissolved  and  dissipated,  and  "in  due  season  we 
shall  reap,  if  we  faint  not." 

Jesus  Christ  brought  the  good  news  (the  gospel) 
that  there  was  a  higher  law  than  the  law  of  Karma 
—  and  that  that  law  transcends  the  law  of  Karma. 
It  is  the  law  of  grace,  or  forgiveness.  It  is  the  law 
which/ree5  man  from  the  law  of  cause  and  effect  — 
the  law  of  consequence.  "Under  grace,  and  not 
under  law.  " 

We  are  told  that  on  this  plane,  man  reaps  where 
he  has  not  sown;  the  gifts  of  God  are  simply  poured 
out  upon  him.  "All  that  the  Kingdom  affords  is 
his."  This  continued  state  of  bliss  awaits  the  man 
who  has  overcome  the  race  (or  world)  thought. 

In  the  world  thought  there  is  tribulation,  but 
Jesus  Christ  said:  "Be  of  good  cheer;  I  have  over- 
come the  world." 

The  world  thought  is  that  of  sin,  sickness  and 
death.  He  saw  their  absolute  unreality  and  said 


The  Law  of  Karma  and  The  Law  of  Forgiveness        47 

sickness  and  sorrow  shall  pass  away  and  death 
itself,  the  last  enemy,  be  overcome. 

We  know  now,  from  a  scientific  standpoint,  that 
death  could  be  overcome  by  stamping  the  subcon- 
scious mind  with  the  conviction  of  eternal  youth 
and  eternal  life. 

The  subconscious,  being  simply  power  without 
direction,  carries  out  orders  without  questioning. 

Working  under  the  direction  of  the  supercon- 
scious  (the  Christ  or  God  within  man)  the  "resur- 
rection of  the  body"  would  be  accomplished. 

Man  would  no  longer  throw  off  his  body  in 
death,  it  would  be  transformed  into  the  "body 
electric,"  sung  by  Walt  Whitman,  for  Christianity 
is  founded  upon  the  forgiveness  of  sins  and  "an 
empty  tomb." 


CASTING  THE  BURDEN 

Impressing  the  Subconscious 


When  man  knows  his  own  powers  and  the  work- 
ings of  his  mind,  his  great  desire  is  to  find  an  easy 
and  quick  way  to  impress  the  subconscious  with 
good,  for  simply  an  intellectual  knowledge  of  the 
Truth  will  not  bring  results. 

In  my  own  case,  I  found  the  easiest  way  is  in 
"casting  the  burden." 

A  metaphysician  once  explained  it  in  this  man- 
ner. He  said,  "The  only  thing  which  gives  anything 
weight  in  nature,  is  the  law  of  gravitation,  and  if  a 
boulder  could  be  taken  high  above  the  planet, 
there  would  be  no  weight  in  that  boulder;  and  that 
is  what  Jesus  Christ  meant  when  he  said:  "My  yoke 
is  easy  and  my  burden  is  light." 

He  had  overcome  the  world  vibration,  and  func- 
tioned in  the  fourth  dimensional  realm,  where 
there  is  only  perfection,  completion,  life  and  joy. 

He  said:  "Come  to  me  all  ye  that  labor  and  are 
heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give  you  rest."  "Take  my 
yoke  upon  you,  for  my  yoke  is  easy  and  my  burden 
is  light." 

We  are  also  told  in  the  fifty-fifth  Psalm,  to  "cast 
thy  burden  upon  the  Lord."  Many  passages  in  the 

48 


Casting  the  Burden         49 

Bible  state  that  the  battle  is  God's  not  man's  and 
that  man  is  always  to  "stand  still"  and  see  the 
Salvation  of  the  Lord. 

This  indicates  that  the  superconscious  mind  (or 
Christ  within)  is  the  department  which  fights  man's 
battle  and  relieves  him  of  burdens. 

We  see,  therefore,  that  man  violates  law  if  he 
carries  a  burden,  and  a  burden  is  an  adverse 
thought  or  condition,  and  this  thought  or  condition 
has  its  root  in  the  subconscious. 

It  seems  almost  impossible  to  make  any  headway 
directing  the  subconscious  from  the  conscious,  or 
reasoning  mind,  as  the  reasoning  mind  (the  intel- 
lect) is  limited  in  its  conceptions,  and  filled  with 
doubts  and  fears. 

How  scientific  it  then  is,  to  cast  the  burden  upon 
the  superconscious  mind  (or  Christ  within)  where 
it  is  "made  light,"  or  dissolved  into  its  "native 
nothingness." 

For  example:  A  woman  in  urgent  need  of  money, 
"made  light"  upon  the  Christ  within,  the  supercon- 
scious, with  the  statement,  "I  cast  this  burden  of 
lack  on  the  Christ  (within)  and  I  go  free  to  have 
plenty!" 

The  belief  in  lack  was  her  burden ,  and  as  she  cast 
it  upon  the  Superconscious  with  its  belief  of  plenty, 
an  avalanche  of  supply  was  the  result. 

We  read,  "The  Christ  in  you  the  hope  of  glory." 

Another  example:  One  of  my  students  had  been 
given  a  new  piano,  and  there  was  no  room  in  her 
studio  for  it  until  she  had  moved  out  the  old  one. 
She  was  in  a  state  of  perplexity.  She  wanted  to  keep 
the  old  piano,  but  knew  of  no  place  to  send  it.  She 


50  The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

became  desperate,  as  the  new  piano  was  to  be  sent 
immediately;  in  fact,  was  on  its  way,  with  no  place 
to  put  it.  She  said  it  came  to  her  to  repeat,  "I  cast 
this  burden  on  the  Christ  within,  and  I  go  free." 

A  few  moments  later,  her  'phone  rang,  and  a 
woman  friend  asked  if  she  might  rent  her  old 
piano,  and  it  was  moved  out,  a  few  minutes  before 
the  new  one  arrived. 

I  knew  a  woman,  whose  burden  was  resentment. 
She  said,  "I  cast  this  burden  of  resentment  on  the 
Christ  within,  and  I  go  free,  to  be  loving,  harmoni- 
ous and  happy."  The  Almighty  superconscious, 
flooded  the  subconscious  with  love,  and  her  whole 
life  was  changed.  For  years,  resentment  had  held 
her  in  a  state  of  torment  and  imprisoned  her  soul 
(the  subconscious  mind). 

The  statement  should  be  made  over  and  over 
and  over,  sometimes  for  hours  at  a  time,  silently  or 
audibly,  with  quietness  but  determination. 

I  have  often  compared  it  to  winding-up  a  victro- 
la.  We  must  wind  ourselves  up  with  spoken  words. 

I  have  noticed,  in  "casting  the  burden,"  after  a 
little  while,  one  seems  to  see  clearly.  It  is  impossible 
to  have  clear  vision,  while  in  the  throes  of  carnal 
mind.  Doubts  and  fear  poison  the  mind  and  body 
and  imagination  runs  riot,  attracting  disaster  and 
disease. 

In  steadily  repeating  the  affirmation,  "I  cast  this 
burden  on  the  Christ  within,  and  go  Tree,"  the 
vision  clears,  and  with  it  a  feeling  of  relief,  and 
sooner  or  later  comes  the  manifestation  of  good,  be 
it  health,  happiness  or  supply. 

One  of  my  students  once  asked  me  to  explain  the 
"darkness  before  the  dawn."  I  referred  in  a  preced- 


Casting  the  Burden         51 

ing  chapter  to  the  fact  that  often,  before  the  big 
demonstration  "everything  seems  to  go  wrong," 
and  deep  depression  clouds  the  consciousness.  It 
means  that  out  of  the  subconscious  are  rising  the 
doubts  and  fears  of  the  ages.  These  old  derelicts  of 
the  subconscious  rise  to  the  surface,  to  be  put  out. 

It  is  then,  that  man  should  clap  his  cymbals,  like 
Jehoshaphat,  and  give  thanks  that  he  is  saved,  even 
though  he  seems  surrounded  by  the  enemy  (the 
situation  of  lack  or  disease).  The  student  contin- 
ued, "How  long  must  one  remain  in  the  dark"  and  I 
replied,  "until  one  can  see  in  the  dark,  "  and  "cast- 
ing the  burden  enables  one  to  see  in  the  dark. " 

In  order  to  impress  the  subconscious,  active  faith 
is  always  essential. 

"Faith  without  works  is  dead."  In  these  chapters 
I  have  endeavored  to  bring  out  this  point. 

Jesus  Christ  showed  active  faith  when  "He  com- 
manded the  multitude  to  sit  down  on  the  ground," 
before  he  gave  thanks  for  the  loaves  and  the  fishes. 

I  will  give  another  example  showing  how  neces- 
sary this  step  is.  In  fact,  active  faith  is  the  bridge, 
over  which  man  passes  to  his  Promised  Land. 

Through  misunderstanding,  a  woman  had  been 
separated  from  her  husband,  whom  she  loved 
deeply.  He  refused  all  offers  of  reconciliation  and 
would  not  communicate  with  her  in  any  way. 

Coming  into  the  knowledge  of  Spiritual  law,  she 
denied  the  appearance  of  separation.  She  made 
this  statement:  "There  is  no  separation  in  Divine 
Mind,  therefore,'!  cannot  be  separated  from  the 
love  and  companionship  which  are  mine  by  divine 
right." 

She  showed  active  faith  by  arranging  a  place  for 


52         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

him  at  the  table  every  day;  thereby  impressing  the 
subconscious  with  a  picture  of  his  return.  Over  a 
year  passed,  but  she  never  wavered,  and  one  day  he 
walked  in. 

The  subconscious  is  often  impressed  through 
music.  Music  has  a  fourth  dimensional  quality  and 
releases  the  soul  from  imprisonment.  It  makes 
wonderful  things  seem  possible,  and  easy  of  accom- 
plishment! 

I  have  a  friend  who  uses  her  victrola,  daily,  for 
this  purpose.  It  puts  her  in  perfect  harmony  and 
releases  the  imagination. 

Another  woman  often  dances  while  making  her 
affirmations.  The  rhythm  and  harmony  of  music 
and  motion  carry  her  words  forth  with  tremendous 
power. 

The  student  must  remember  also,  not  to  despise 
the  "day  of  small  things." 

Invariably,  before  a  demonstration,  come  "signs 
of  land." 

Before  Columbus  reached  America,  he  saw  birds 
and  twigs  which  showed  him  land  was  near.  So  it  is 
with  a  demonstration;  but  often  the  student  mis- 
takes it  for  the  demonstration  itself,  and  is  disap- 
pointed. 

For  example:  A  woman  had  "spoken  the  word" 
for  a  set  of  dishes.  Not  long  afterwards  a  friend  gave 
her  a  dish  which  was  old  and  cracked. 

She  came  to  me  and  said,  "Well,  I  asked  for  a  set 
of  dishes,  and  all  I  got  was  a  cracked  plate." 

I  replied,  "The  plate  was  only  signs  of  land.  It 
shows  your  dishes  are  coming  — look  upon  it  as 
birds  and  seaweed,"  and  not  long  afterwards  the 
dishes  came. 


Casting  the  Burden         53 

Continually  "making-believe,"  impresses  the 
subconscious.  If  one  makes  believe  he  is  rich,  and 
makes  believe  he  is  successful,  in  "due  time  he  v^ill 
reap." 

Children  are  always  "making  believe,"  and  "ex- 
cept ye  be  converted,  and  become  as  little  children, 
ye  shall  not  enter  the  Kingdom  of  Heaven." 

For  example:  I  know  of  a  woman  who  was  very 
poor,  but  no  one  could  make  her  feel  poor.  She 
earned  a  small  amount  of  money  from  rich  friends, 
who  constantly  reminded  her  of  her  poverty,  and  to 
be  careful  and  saving.  Regardless  of  their  admoni- 
tions, she  would  spend  all  her  earnings  on  a  hat,  or 
make  someone  a  gift,  and  be  in  a  rapturous  state  of 
mind.  Her  thoughts  were  always  centered  on  beau- 
tiful clothes  and  "rings  and  things,"  but  without 
envying  others. 

She  lived  in  the  world  of  the  wondrous,  and  only 
riches  seemed  real  to  her.  Before  long  she  married  a 
rich  man,  and  the  rings  and  things  became  visible. 
I  do  not  know  whether  the  man  was  the  "Divine 
Selection,"  but  opulence  had  to  manifest  in  her 
life,  as  she  had  imaged  only  opulence. 

There  is  no  peace  or  happiness  for  man,  until  he 
has  erased  all  fear  from  the  subconscious. 

Fear  is  misdirected  energy  and  must  be  redi- 
rected,  or  traflsmuced  into  Faith.  " 

Jesus  Christ  said,  "Why  are  ye  fearful,  O  ye  of 
little  faith?"  "All  things  are  possible  to  him  that 
believeth." 

I  am  asked,  so  often  by  my  students,  "How  can  I 
get  rid  of  fear  f" 

I  reply,  "By  walking  up  to  the  thing  you  are 
afraid  of  " 


54         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

"The  lion  takes  its  fierceness  from  your  fear." 

Walk  up  to  the  lion,  and  he  will  disappear;  run 
away  and  he  runs  after  you. 

I  have  shown  in  previous  chapters,  how  the  lion 
of  lack  disappeared  when  the  individual  spent 
money  fearlessly,  showing  faith  that  God  was  his 
supply  and  therefore,  unfailing. 

Many  of  my  students  have  come  out  of  the 
bondage  of  poverty,  and  are  now  bountifully  sup- 
plied, through  losing  all  fear  of  letting  money  go 
out.  The  subconscious  is  impressed  with  the  truth 
that  God  is  the  Giver  and  the  Gift;  therefore  as  one 
is  one  with  the  Giver,  he  is  one  with  the  Gift.  A 
splendid  statement  is,  "I  now  thank  God  the  Giver 
for  God  the  Gift." 

Man  has  so  long  separated  himself  from  his  good 
and  his  supply,  through  thoughts  of  separation  and 
lack,  that  sometimes,  it  takes  dynamite  to  dislodge 
these  false  ideas  from  the  subconscious,  and  the 
dynamite  is  a  big  situation. 

We  see  in  the  foregoing  illustration,  how  the 
individual  was  freed  from  his  bondage  by  showing 
fearlessness. 

Man  should  watch  himself  hourly  to  detect  if  his 
motive  for  action  is  fear  or  faith. 

"Choose  ye  this  day  whom  we  shall  serve, "  fear  or 
faith. 

Perhaps  one's  fear  is  of  personality.  Then  do  not 
avoid  the  people  feared;  be  willing  to  meet  them 
cheerfully,  and  they  will  either  prove  "golden  links 
in  the  chain  of  one's  good,"  or  disappear  harmoni- 
ously from  one's  pathway. 

Perhaps  one's  fear  is  of  disease  or  germs.  Then 


Casting  the  Burden         55 

one  should  be  fearless  and  undisturbed  in  a  germ- 
laden  situation,  and  he  would  be  immune. 

One  can  only  contract  germs  while  vibrating  at 
the  same  rate  as  the  germ,  and  fear  drags  men 
down  to  the  level  of  the  germ .  Of  course ,  the  disease 
laden  germ  is  the  product  of  carnal  mind,  as  all 
thought  must  objectify.  Germs  do  not  exist  in  the 
superconscious  or  Divine  Mind,  therefore  are  the 
product  of  man's  "vain  imagination." 

"In  the  twinkling  of  an  eye,"  man's  release  will 
come  when  he  realizes  there  is  no  power  in  evil. 

The  material  world  will  fade  away,  and  the 
fourth  dimensional  world,  the  "World  of  the  Won- 
drous," will  swing  into  manifestation. 

"And  I  saw  a  new  heaven,  and  a  new  earth  —  and 
there  shall  be  no  more  death,  neither  sorrow  nor 
crying,  neither  shall  there  be  any  more  pain;  for  the 
former  things  are  passed  away." 


LOVE 


Every  man  on  this  planet  is  taking  his  initiation 
in  love.  "A  new  commandment  I  give  unto  you, 
that  ye  love  one  another."  Ouspensky  states,  in 
"Tertium  Organum,"  that  "love  is  a  cosmic  phe- 
nomenon," and  opens  to  man  the  fourth  dimen- 
sional world,  "The  World  of  the  Wondrous." 

Real  love  is  selfless  and  free  from  fear.  It  pours 
itself  out  upon  the  object  of  its  affection,  without 
demanding  any  return.  Its  joy  is  in  the  joy  of  giving. 
Love  is  God  in  manifestation,  and  the  strongest 
magnetic  force  in  the  universe.  Pure,  unselfish  love 
draws  to  itself  its  own;  it  does  not  need  to  seek  or 
demand.  Scarcely  anyone  has  the  faintest  concep- 
tion of  real  love.  Man  is  selfish,  tyrannical  or  fear- 
ful in  his  affections,  thereby  losing  the  thing  he 
loves.  Jealousy  is  the  worst  enemy  of  love,  for  the 
imagination  runs  riot,  seeing  the  loved  one  at- 
tracted to  another,  and  invariably  these  fears 
objectify  if  they  are  not  neutralized. 

For  example:  A  woman  came  to  me  in  deep  dis- 
tress. The  man  she  loved  had  left  her  for  other 
women,  and  said  he  never  intended  to  marry  her. 

56 


Love         57 

She  was  torn  with  jealousy  and  resentment  and  said 
she  hoped  he  would  suffer  as  he  had  made  her 
suffer;  and  added,  "How  could  he  leave  me  when  I 
loved  him  so  much?" 

I  replied,  "You  are  not  loving  that  man,  you  are 
hating  him,"  and  added,  "You  can  never  receive 
what  you  have  never  given.  Give  a  perfect  love  and 
you  will  receive  a  perfect  love.  Perfect"yoursell^  on 
this  man.  Give  him  a  perfect,  unselfish  love,  de- 
manding  nothing  in  return,  do  not  criticise  or 
condemn,  and  bless  htm  wherever  he  is. " 

She  replied,  "No,  I  won't  bless  him  unless  I  know 
where  he  is!" 

"Well,"  I  said,  "that  is  not  real  love." 

"When  you  send  out  real  love,  real  love  will  re- 
turn to  you,  either  from  this  man  or  his  equivalent, 
for  if  this  man  is  not  the  divine  selection,  you  will 
not  want  him.  As  you  are  one  with  God,  you  are  one 
with  the  love  which  belongs  to  you  by  divine  right." 

Several  months  passed,  and  matters  remained 
about  the  same,  but  she  was  working  conscientious- 
ly with  herself.  I  said,  "When  you  are  no  longer 
disturbed  by  his  cruelty,  he  will  cease  to  be  cruel,  as 
you  are  attracting  it  through  your  own  emotions." 

Then  I  told  her  of  a  brotherhood  in  India,  who 
never  said,  "Good  morning"  to  each  other.  They 
used  these  words:  "/  salute  the  Divinity  in  you. " 
They  saluted  the  divinity  in  every  man,  and  in  the 
wild  animals  in  the  jungle,  and  they  were  never 
harmed,  for  they  saw  only  God  in  every  living 
thing.  I  said,  "Salute  the  divinity  in  this  man,  and 
say,  'I  see  your  divine  self  only.  I  see  you  as  God  sees 


58         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

you,  perfect,  made  in  His  image  and  likeness.'" 

She  found  she  was  becoming  more  poised,  and 
gradually  losing  her  resentment.  He  was  a  Captain, 
and  she  always  called  him  "The  Cap." 

One  day,  she  said,  suddenly,  "God  bless  the  Cap 
wherever  he  is.  " 

I  replied:  "Now,  that  is  real  love,  and  when  you 
have  become  a  'complete  circle,'  and  are  no  longer 
disturbed  by  the  situation,  you  will  have  his  love,  or 
attract  its  equivalent." 

I  was  moving  at  this  time,  and  did  not  have  a 
telephone,  so  was  out  of  touch  with  her  for  a  few 
weeks,  when  one  morning  I  received  a  letter  saying, 
"We  are  married." 

At  the  earliest  opportunity,  I  paid  her  a  call.  My 
first  words  were,  "What  happened?" 

"Oh,"  she  exclaimed,  "a  miracle!  One  day  I  woke 
up  and  all  suffering  had  ceased.  I  saw  him  that 
evening  and  he  asked  me  to  marry  him.  We  were 
married  in  about  a  week,  and  I  have  never  seen  a 
more  devoted  man." 

There  is  an  old  saying:  "No  man  is  your  enemy, 
no  man  is  your  friend,  every  man  is  your  teacher.  " 

So  one  should  become  impersonal  and  learn 
what  each  man  has  to  teach  him,  and  soon  he 
would  learn  his  lessons  and  be  free. 

The  woman's  lover  was  teaching  her  selfless  love, 
which  every  man,  sooner  or  later,  must  learn. 

Suffering  is  not  necessary  for  man's  develop- 
ment; it  is  the  result  of  violation  of  spiritual  law, 
but  few  people  seem  able  to  rouse  themselves  from 
their  "soul  sleep"  without  it.   When  people   are 


Love        59 

happy,  they  usually  become  selfish,  and  auto- 
matically the  law  of  Karma  is  set  in  action.  Man 
often  suffers  loss  through  lack  of  appreciation. 

I  knew  a  woman  who  had  a  very  nice  husband, 
but  she  said  often,  "I  don't  care  anything  about 
being  married,  but  that  is  nothing  against  my 
husband.  I'm  simply  not  interested  in  married 
life." 

She  had  other  interests,  and  scarcely  remem- 
bered she  had  a  husband.  She  only  thought  of  him 
when  she  saw  him.  One  day  her  husband  told  her 
he  was  in  love  with  another  woman,  and  left.  She 
came  to  me  in  distress  and  resentment. 

I  replied,  "It  is  exactly  what  you  spoke  the  word 
for.  You  said  you  didn't  care  anything  about  being 
married,  so  the  subconscious  worked  to  get  you 
unmarried." 

She  said,  "Oh  yes,  I  see.  People  get  what  they 
want,  and  then  feel  very  much  hurt." 

She  soon  became  in  perfect  harmony  with  the 
situation,  and  knew  they  were  both  much  happier 
apart. 

When  a  woman  becomes  indifferent  or  critical , 
and  ceases  to  be  an  mspiratroiTto  her  husband,  he 
misses  the  stimulus  of  their  early  relationship  and  is 


restless  and  unhappy. 

A  man  came  to  me  dejected,  miserable  and 
poor.  His  wife  was  interested  in  the  "Science  of 
Numbers,"  and  had  had  him  read.  It  seems  the 
report  was  not  very  favorable,  for  he  said,  "My  wife 
says  I'll  never  amount  to  anything  because  I  am  a 
two." 


60         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

I  replied,  "I  don't  care  what  your  number  is,  you 
are  a  perfect  idea  in  divine  mind,  and  we  will 
demand  the  success  and  prosperity  which  are  al- 
ready planned  for  you  by  that  Infinite  Intelli- 
gence." 

Within  a  few  weeks,  he  had  a  very  fine  position, 
and  a  year  or  two  later,  he  achieved  a  brilliant 
success  as  a  writer.  No  man  is  a  success  in  business 


unless  he  loves  his  work.  The  picture  the  artist 
paints  for  love  (of  his  art)  is  his  greatest  work.  The 
pot-boiler  is  always  something  to  live  down. 

No  man  can  attract  money  if  he  despises  it.  Many 
people  are  kept  in  poverty  by  saying:  "Money 
means  nothing  to  me,  and  I  have  a  contempt  for 
people  who  have  it." 

This  is  the  reason  so  many  artists  are  poor.  Their 
contempt  for  money  separates  them  from  it. 

I  remember  hearing  one  artist  say  of  another, 
"He's  no  good  as  an  artist,  he  has  money  in  the 
bank." 

This  attitude  of  mind,  of  course,  separates  man 
from  his  supply;  he  must  be  in  harmony  with  a 
thing  in  order  to  attract  it. 

Money  is  God  in  manifestation,  as  freedom  from 
want  and  limitation,  but  it  must  be  always  kept  in 
circulation  and  put  to  right  uses.  Hoarding  and 
saving  react  with  grim  vengeance. 

1  his  does  not  mean  that  man  should  not  have 
houses  and  lots,  stocks  and  bonds,  for  "the  barns 
of  the  righteous  man  shall  be  full."  It  means  man 
should  not  hoard  even  the  principal,  if  an  occasion 
arises,  when  money  is  necessary.  In  letting  it  go  out 
fearlessly  and  cheerfully  he  opens  the  way  tor  more 


Love        61 

to  come  in,  for  God  is  man's  unfailing  and  inex- 
haustible supply. 

This  is  the  spiritual  attitude  towards  money  and 
the  great  Bank  of  the  Universal  never  fails! 

We  see  an  example  of  hoarding  in  the  film 
production  of  "Greed."  The  woman  won  five  thou- 
sand dollars  in  a  lottery,  but  would  not  spend  it. 
She  hoarded  and  saved,  let  her  husband  suffer  and 
starve,  and  eventually  she  scrubbed  floors  for  a 
living. 

She  loved  the  money  itself  and  put  it  above 
everything,  and  one  night  she  was  murdered  and 
the  money  taken  from  her. 

This  is  an  example  of  where  "love  of  money  is  the 
root  of  all  evil."  Money  in  itself,  is  good  and  bene- 
ficial, but  used  for  destructive  purposes,  hoarded 
and  saved,  or  considered  more  important  than 
love,  brings  disease  and  disaster,  and  the  loss  of  the 
money  itself. 

Follow  the  path  of  love,  and  all  things  are  added, 
for  God  is  love,  and  God  is  supply;  follow  the  path 
of  selfishness  and  greed,  and  the  supply  vanishes,  or 
man  is  separated  from  it. 

For  example;  I  knew  the  case  of  a  very  rich 
woman,  who  hoarded  her  income.  She  rarely  gave 
anything  away,  but  bought  and  bought  and  bought 
things  for  herself. 

She  was  very  fond  of  necklaces,  and  a  friend  once 
asked  her  how  many  she  possessed.  She  replied, 
"Sixty-seven."  She  bought  them  and  put  them 
away,  carefully  wrapped  in  tissue  paper.  Had  she 
used  the  necklaces  it  would  have  been  quite  legiti- 
mate, but  she  was  violating  "the  law  of  use."  Her 


62          The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

closets  were  filled  with  clothes  she  never  wore,  and 
jewels  which  never  saw  the  light. 

The  woman's  arms  were  gradually  becoming 
paralyzed  from  holding  on  to  things,  and  eventual- 
ly she  was  considered  incapable  of  looking  after  her 
affairs  and  her  wealth  was  handed  over  to  others  to 
manage. 

So  man,  in  ignorance  of  the  law,  brings  about  his 
own  destruction. 


All  disease,  all  unhappiness,  come  from  the  vio- 
lation of  the  law  of  love.  Man's  boomerangs  of  hate, 
resentment  and  criticism,  come  back  laden  with 
sickness  and  sorrow.  Love  seems  almost  a  lost  art, 
but  the  man  with  the  knowledge  of  spiritual  law 
knows  it  must  be  regained,  for  without  it,  he  has 
"become  as  sounding  brass  and  tinkling  cymbals." 

For  example:  I  had  a  student  who  came  to  me, 
month  after  month,  to  clean  her  consciousness  of 
resentment.  After  a  while,  she  arrived  at  the  point 
where  she  resented  only  one  woman,  but  that  one 
woman  kept  her  busy.  Little  by  little  she  became 
poised  and  harmonious,  and  one  day,  all  resent- 
ment was  wiped  out. 

She  came  in  radiant,  and  exclaimed  "You  can't 
understand  how  I  feel!  The  woman  said  something 
to  me  and  instead  of  being  furious  I  was  loving  and 
kind,  and  she  apologized  and  was  perfectly  lovely  to 
me. 

No  one  can  understand  the  marvelous  lightness  I 
feel  within!" 

Love  and  good-will  are  invaluable  in  business. 

For  example:  A  woman  came  to  me,XOTTrpizTn - 


Love         63 

ing  of  her  employer.  She  said  she  was  cold  and 
critical  and  knew  she  did  not  want  her  in  the 
position. 

"Well,"  I  replied,  "Salute  the  Divinity  in  the 
woman  and  send  her  love." 

She  said  "I  can't;  she's  a  marble  woman." 

I  answered,  "You  remember  the  story  of  the 
sculptor  who  asked  for  a  certain  piece  of  marble. 
He  was  asked  why  he  wanted  it,  and  he  replied, 
'because  there  is  an  angel  in  the  marble,'  and  out  of 
it  he  produced  a  wonderful  work  of  art." 

She  said,  "Very  well,  I'll  try  it."  A  week  later  she 
came  back  and  said,  "I  did  what  you  told  me  to, 
and  now  the  woman  is  very  kind,  and  took  me  out 
in  her  car." 

People  are  sometimes  filled  with  remorse  for 
having  done  someone  an  unkindness,  perhaps  years 
ago. 

If  the  wrong  cannot  be  righted,  its  effect  can  be 
neutralized  by  doing  some  one  a  kindness  in  the 
present. 

"This  one  thing  I  do,  forgetting  those  things 
which  are  behind  and  reaching  forth  unto  those 
things  which  are  before." 

Sorrow,  regret  and  remorse  tear  down  the  cells  of 
the  body,  and  poison  the  atmosphere  of  the  indi- 
vidual. 

A  woman  said  to  me  in  deep  sorrow,  "Treat  me 
to  be  happy  and  joyous,  for  my  sorrow  makes  me  so 
irritable  with  the  members  of  my  family  that  I  keep 
making  more  Karma." 

I  was  asked  to  treat  a  woman  who  was  mourning 


64         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

for  her  daughter.  I  denied  all  belief  in  loss  and 
separation,  and  affirmed  that  God  was  the  wom- 
an's joy,  love  and  peace. 

The  woman  gained  her  poise  at  once,  but  sent 
word  by  her  son,  not  to  treat  any  longer,  because 
she  was  "so  happy,  it  wasn't  respectable." 

So  "mortal  mind"  loves  to  hang  on  to  its  griefs 
and  regrets. 

I  knew  a  woman  who  went  about  bragging  of  her 
troubles,  so,  of  course,  she  always  had  something  to 
brag  about. 

The  old  idea  was  if  a  woman  did  not  worry  about 
her  children,  she  was  not  a  good  mother. 

Now,  we  know  that  mother-fear  is  responsible 
for  many  of  the  diseases  and  accidents  which  come 
into  the  lives  of  children. 

For  fear  pictures  vividly  the  disease  or  situation 
feared,  and  these  pictures  objectify,  if  not  neutral- 
ized. 

Happy  is  the  mother  who  can  say  sincerely,  that 
she  puts  her  child  in  God's  hands,  and  knows  there- 
fore, that  he  is  divinely  protected. 

For  example:  A  woman  awoke  suddenly,  in  the 
night,  feeling  her  brother  was  in  great  danger. 
Instead  of  giving  in  to  her  fears,  she  commenced 
making  statements  of  Truth,  saying,  "Man  is  a 
perfect  idea  in  Divine  Mind,  and  is  always  in  his 
right  place,  therefore,  my  brother  is  in  his  right 
place,  and  is  divinely  protected." 

The  next  day  she  found  that  her  brother  had 
been  in  close  proximity  to  an  explosion  in  a  mine, 
but  had  miraculously  escaped. 


Love        65 

So  man  is  his  brother's  keeper  (in  thought)  and 
every  man  should  know  that  the  thing  he  loves 
dwells  in  "the  secret  place  of  the  most  high,  and 
abides  under  the  shadow  of  the  Almighty." 

"There  shall  no  evil  befall  thee,  neither  shall  any 
plague  come  nigh  thy  dwelling." 

"Perfect  love  casteth  out  fear.  He  that  feareth  is 
not  made  perfect  in  love,"  and  "Love  is  the  fulfill- 
ing of  the  Law." 


INTUITION  OR  GUIDANCE 

"In  all  thy  ways  acknowledge  Him  and 
He  shall  direct  thy  paths." 


There  is  nothing  too  great  of  accomplishment 
for  the  man  who  knows  the  power  of  his  word,  and 
who  follows  his  intuitive  leads.  By  the  word  he  starts 
in  action  unseen  forces  and  can  rebuild  his  body  or 
remold  his  affairs. 

It  is,  therefore,  of  the  utmost  importance  to 
choose  the  right  words,  and  the  student  carefully 
selects  the  affirmation  he  wishes  to  catapult  into 
the  invisible. 

He  knows  that  God  is  his  supply,  that  there  is  a 
supply  for  every  demand,  and  that  his  spoken  word 
releases  this  supply. 

"Ask  and  ye  shall  receive." 

Man  must  make  the  first  move.  "Draw  nigh  to 
God  and  He  will  draw  nigh  to  you." 

I  have  often  been  asked  just  how  to  make  a 
demonstration. 

I  reply:  "Speak  the  word  and  then  do  not  do 
anything  until  you  ge  t  a  definite  lead."  Demand 
the  lead,  saying,  "Infinite  Spirit,  reveal  to  me  the 
way,  let  me  know  if  there  is  anything  for  me  to  do." 

66 


Intuition  or  Guidance         67 

The  answer  will  come  through  intuition  (or 
hunch);  a  chance  remark  from  someone,  or  a 
passage  in  a  book,  etc.,  etc.  The  answers  are 
sometimes  quite  startling  in  their  exactness.  For 
example:  A  woman  desired  a  large  sum  of  money. 
She  spoke  the  words:  "Infinite  Spirit,  open  the  way 
for  my  immediate  supply,  let  all  that  is  mine  by 
divine  right  now  reach  me,  in  great  avalanches  of 
abundance."  Then  she  added:  "Give  me  a  definite 
lead,  letmeknowif  there  is  anything  for  me  to  do." 

The  thought  came  quickly,  "Give  a  certain 
friend"  (who  had  helped  her  spiritually)  "a  hun- 
dred dollars."  She  told  her  friend,  who  said,  "Wait 
and  get  another  lead,  before  giving  it."  So  she 
waited,  and  that  day  met  a  woman  who  said  to  her, 
"I  gave  someone  a  dollar  today;  it  was  just  as  much 
for  me,  as  it  would  be  for  you  to  give  someone  a 
hundred." 

This  was  indeed  an  unmistakable  lead,  so  she 
knew  she  was  right  in  giving  the  hundred  dollars. 
It  was  a  gift  which  proved  a  great  investment,  for 
shortly  after  that,  a  large  sum  of  money  came  to  her 
in  a  remarkable  way. 

Giving  opens  the  way  for  receiving.  In  order  to 
create  activity  in  finances,  one  should  give.  Tithing 
or  giving  one-tenth  of  one's  income,  is  an  old  Jewish 
custom,  and  is  sure  to  bring  increase.  Many  of  the 
richest  men  in  this  country  have  been  tithers,  and  I 
have  never  known  it  to  fail  as  an  investment. 

The  tenth-part  goes  forth  and  returns  blessed 
and  multiplied.  But  the  gift  or  tithe  must  be  given 
with  love  and  cheerfulness,  for  "God  loveth  a  cheer- 
ful giver."   Bills  should  be  paid  cheerfully;    all 


68         The  Game  of  Life  and  HoM>  to  Play  It 

money  should  be  sent  forth  fearlessly  and  with  a 
blessing. 

This  attitude  of  mind  makes  man  master  of 
money.  It  is  his  to  obey,  and  his  spoken  word  then 
opens  vast  reservoirs  of  wealth. 

Man,  himself,  limits  his  supply  by  his  limited 
vision.  Sometimes  the  student  has  a  great  realiza- 
tion of  wealth,  but  is  afraid  to  act. 

The  vision  and  action  must  go  hand  in  hand,  as 
in  the  case  of  the  man  who  bought  the  fur-lined 
overcoat. 

A  woman  came  to  me  asking  me  to  "speak  the 
word"  for  a  position.  So  I  demanded:  "Infinite 
Spirit,  open  the  way  for  this  woman's  right  posi- 
tion." Never  ask  for  just  "a  position";  ask  for  the 
right  position,  the  place  already  planned  in  Divine 
Mind,  as  it  is  the  only  one  that  will  give  satisfaction. 

I  then  gave  thanks  that  she  had  already  received, 
and  that  it  would  manifest  quickly.  Very  soon,  she 
had  three  positions  offered  her,  two  in  New  York 
and  one  in  Palm  Beach,  and  she  did  not  know 
which  to  choose.  I  said,  "Ask  for  a  definite  lead." 

The  time  was  almost  up  and  was  still  undecided, 
when  one  day,  she  telephoned,  "When  I  woke  up 
this  morning,  I  could  smell  Palm  Beach."  She  had 
been  there  before  and  knew  its  balmy  fragrance. 

I  replied:  "Well,  if  you  can  smell  Palm  Beach 
from  here,  it  is  certainly  your  lead."  She  accepted 
the  position,  and  it  proved  a  great  success.  Often 
one's  lead  comes  at  an  unexpected  time. 

One  day,  I  was  walking  down  the  street,  when  I 
suddenly  felt  a  strong  urge  to  go  to  a  certain 
bakery,  a  block  or  two  away. 


Intuition  or  Guidance         69 

The  reasoning  mind  resisted,  arguing,  "There  is 
nothing  there  that  you  want." 

However,  I  had  learned  not  to  reason,  so  I  went 
to  the  bakery,  looked  at  everything,  and  there  was 
certainly  nothing  there  that  I  wanted,  but  coming 
out  I  encountered  a  woman  I  had  thought  of  often, 
and  who  was  in  great  need  of  the  help  which  I  could 
g^ve  her. 

So  often,  one  goes  for  one  thing  and  fmds  an- 
other. 

Intuition  is  a  spiritual  faculty  and  does  not  ex- 
plain, but  simply  points  the  way. 

A  person  often  receives  a  lead  during  a  "treat- 
ment." The  idea  that  comes  may  seem  quite  irrele- 
vant, but  some  of  God's  leadings  are  "mysterious." 

In  the  class,  one  day,  I  was  treating  that  each 
individual  would  receive  a  definite  lead.  A  woman 
came  to  me  afterwards,  and  said:  "While  you  were 
treating,  I  got  the  hunch  to  take  my  furniture  out  of 
storage  and  get  an  apartment."  The  woman  had 
come  to  be  treated  for  health.  I  told  her  I  knew  in 
getting  a  home  of  her  own,  her  health  would 
improve,  and  I  added,  "I  believe  your  trouble, 
which  is  a  congestion,  has  come  from  having  things 
stored  away.  Congestion  of  things  causes  conges- 
tion in  the  body.  You  have  violated  the  law  of  use, 
and  your  body  is  paying  the  penalty." 

So  I  gave  thanks  that  "Divine  order  was  estab- 
lished in  her  mind,  body  and  affairs.  " 

People  little  dream  of  how  their  affairs  react  on 
the  body.  There  is  a  mental  correspondence  for 
every  disease.  A  person  might  receive  instantane- 
ous healing  through  the  realization  of  his  body 


70         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

being  a  perfect  idea  in  Divine  Mind,  and,  there- 
fore, whole  and  perfect,  but  if  he  continues  his 
destructive  thinking,  hoarding,  hating,  fearing, 
condemning,  the  disease  will  return. 

Jesus  Christ  knew  that  all  sickness  came  from 
sin,  but  admonished  the  leper  after  the  healing,  to 
go  and  sin  no  more,  lest  a  worse  thing  come  upon 
him. 

So  man's  soul  (or  subconscious  mind)  must  be 
washed  whiter  than  snow,  for  permanent  healing; 
and  the  metaphysician  is  always  delving  deep  for 
the  "correspondence." 

Jesus  Christ  said,  "Condemn  not  lest  ye  also  be 
condemned." 

"Judge  not,  lest  ye  be  judged." 

Many  people  have  attracted  disease  and  unhap- 
piness  through  condemnation  of  others. 

What  man  condemns  in  others,  he  attracts  to 
himself. 

For  example:  A  friend  came  to  me  in  anger  and 
distress,  because  her  husband  had  deserted  her  for 
another  woman.  She  condemned  the  other  wom- 
an, and  said  continually,  "She  knew  he  was  a 
married  man,  and  had  no  right  to  accept  his 
attentions." 

I  replied.  "Stop  condemning  the  woman,  bless 
her,  and  be  through  with  the  situation,  otherwise, 
you  are  attracting  the  same  thing  to  yourself." 

She  was  deaf  to  my  words,  and  a  year  or  two 
later,  became  deeply  interested  in  a  married  man, 
herself. 

Man  picks  up  a  live-wire  whenever  he  criticises 
or  condemns,  and  may  expect  a  shock. 

Indecision  is  a  stumbling-block  in  many  a  path- 


Intuition  or  Guidance         71 

way.  In  order  to  overcome  it,  make  the  statement, 
repeatedly,  '7  am  always  under  direct  inspiration; 
I  make  right  decisions,  quickly.  " 

These  words  impress  the  subconscious,  and  soon 
one  finds  himself  awake  and  alert,  making  his 
right  moves  without  hesitation.  I  have  found  it 
destructive  to  look  to  the  psychic  plane  for  guid- 
ance, as  it  is  the  plane  of  many  minds  and  not 
"The  One  Mind." 

As  man  opens  his  mind  to  subjectivity,  he  be- 
comes a  target  for  destructive  forces.  The  psychic 
plane  is  the  result  of  man's  mortal  thought,  and  is 
on  the  "plane  of  opposites."  He  may  receive  either 
good  or  bad  messages. 

The  science  of  numbers  and  the  reading  of 
horoscopes,  keep  man  down  on  the  mental  (or 
mortal)  plane,  for  they  deal  only  with  the  Karmic 
path. 

I  know  of  a  man  who  should  have  been  dead, 
years  ago,  according  to  his  horoscope,  but  he  is 
alive  and  a  leader  of  one  of  the  biggest  movements 
in  this  country  for  the  uplift  of  humanity. 

It  takes  a  very  strong  mind  to  neutralize  a  proph- 
ecy of  evil.  The  student  should  declare,  "Every 
false  prophecy  shall  come  to  naught;  every  plan 
my  Father  in  heaven  has  not  planned,  shall  be  dis- 
solved and  dissipated,  the  divine  idea  now  comes 
to  pass." 

However,  if  any  good  message  has  ever  been 
given  one,  of  coming  happiness,  or  wealth,  harbor 
and  expect  it,  and  it  will  manifest  sooner  or  later, 
through  the  law  of  expectancy. 

Man's  will  should  be  used  to  back  the  universal 
will.  "I  will  that  the  will  of  God  be  done." 


72         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

It  is  God's  will  to  give  every  man,  every  right- 
eous desire  of  his  heart,  and  man's  v^ill  should  be 
used  to  hold  the  perfect  vision,  w^ithout  wavering. 

The  prodigal  son  said:  "I  will  arise  and  go  to  my 
Father." 

It  is,  indeed,  often  an  effort  of  the  will  to  leave 
the  husks  and  swine  of  mortal  thinking.  It  is  so 
much  easier,  for  the  average  person,  to  have  fear 
than  faith;  so  faith  is  an  effort  of  the  will. 

As  man  becomes  spiritually  awakened  he  recog- 
nizes that  any  external  inharmony  is  the  corre- 
spondence of  mental  inharmony.  If  he  stumbles  or 
falls,  he  may  know  he  is  stumbling  or  falling  in 
consciousness. 

One  day,  a  student  was  walking  along  the  street 
condemning  someone  in  her  thoughts.  She  was 
saying,  mentally,  "That  woman  is  the  most  dis- 
agreeable woman  on  earth,"  when  suddenly  three 
boy  scouts  rushed  around  the  comer  and  almost 
knocked  her  over.  She  did  not  condemn  the  boy 
scouts,  but  immediately  called  on  the  law  of  for- 
giveness, and  "saluted  the  divinity"  in  the  woman. 
Wisdom's  way  are  ways  of  pleasantness  and  all  her 
paths  are  peace. 

When  one  has  made  his  demands  upon  the 
Universal,  he  must  be  ready  for  surprises.  Every- 
thing may  seem  to  be  going  wrong,  when  in  real- 
ity, it  is  going  right. 

For  example:  A  woman  was  told  that  there  was 
no  loss  in  divine  mind,  therefore,  she  could  not 
lose  anything  which  belonged  to  her;  anything 
lost,  would  be  returned,  or  she  would  receive  its 
equivalent. 

Several  years  previously,  she  had  lost  two  thou- 


Intuition  or  Guidance         73 

sand  dollars.  She  had  loaned  the  money  to  a  rela- 
tive during  her  lifetime,  but  the  relative  had  died, 
leaving  no  mention  of  it  in  her  will.  The  woman 
was  resentful  and  angry,  and  as  she  had  no  written 
statement  of  the  transaction,  she  never  received 
the  money,  so  she  determined  to  deny  the  loss,  and 
collect  the  two  thousand  dollars  from  the  Bank  of 
the  Universal.  She  had  to  begin  by  forgiving  the 
woman,  as  resentment  and  unforgiveness  close  the 
doors  of  this  wonderful  bank.        """ 

She  made  this  statement,  "I  deny  loss,  there  is 
no  loss  in  Divine  Mind,  therefore,  I  cannot  lose  the 
two  thousand  dollars,  which  belong  to  me  by  di- 
vine right.  "As  one  door  shuts  another  door 
opens. " 

She  was  living  in  an  apartment  house  which  was 
for  sale;  and  in  the  lease  was  a  clause,  stating  that 
if  the  house  was  sold,  the  tenants  would  be  re- 
quired to  move  out  within  ninety  days. 

Suddenly,  the  landlord  broke  the  leases  and 
raised  the  rent.  Again,  injustice  was  on  her  path- 
way, but  this  time  she  was  undisturbed.  She 
blessed  the  landlord,  and  said,  "As  the  rent  has 
been  raised,  it  means  that  I'll  be  that  much  richer, 
for  God  is  my  supply." 

New  leases  were  made  out  for  the  advanced 
rent,  but  by  some  divine  mistake,  the  ninety  days 
clause  had  been  forgotten.  Soon  after,  the  land- 
lord had  an  opportunity  to  sell  the  house.  On 
account  of  the  mistake  in  the  new  leases,  the  ten- 
ants held  possession  for  another  year. 

The  agent  offered  each  tenant  two  hundred 
dollars  if  he  would  vacate.  Several  families  moved; 
three  remained,  including  the  woman.  A  month 


74         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

or  two  passed,  and  the  agent  again  appeared.  This 
time  he  said  to  the  woman,  "Will  you  break  your 
lease  for  the  sum  of  fifteen  hundred  dollars?"  It 
flashed  upon  her,  "Here  comes  the  two  thousand 
dollars."  She  remembered  having  said  to  friends 
in  the  house,  "We  will  all  act  together  if  anything 
more  is  said  about  leaving."  So  her  lead  was  to 
consult  her  friends. 

These  friends  said:  "Well,  if  they  have  offered 
you  fifteen  hundred  they  will  certainly  give  two 
thousand."  So  she  received  a  check  for  two  thou- 
sand dollars  for  giving  up  the  apartment.  It  was 
certainly  a  remarkable  working  of  the  law,  and 
the  apparent  injustice  was  merely  opening  the  way 
for  her  demonstration. 

It  proved  that  there  is  no  loss,  and  when  man 
takes  his  spiritual  stand,  he  collects  all  that  is  his 
from  this  great  Reservoir  of  Good. 

"I  will  restore  to  you  the  years  the  locusts  have 
eaten." 

The  locusts  are  the  doubts,  fears,  resentments 
and  regrets  of  mortal  thinking. 

These  adverse  thoughts,  alone,  rob  man;  for 
"No  man  gives  to  himself  but  himself,  and  no  man 
takes  away  from  himself,  but  himself." 

Man  is  here  to  prove  God  and  "to  bear  witness 
to  the  truth,"  and  he  can  only  prove  God  by 
bringing  plenty  out  of  lack,  and  justice  out  of 
injustice. 

"Prove  me  now  herewith,  saith  the  Lord  of 
hosts,  if  I  will  not  open  you  the  windows  of  heav- 
en, and  pour  out  a  blessing,  that  there  shall  not  be 
room  enough  to  receive  it." 


PERFECT  SELF-EXPRESSION 

or 

THE  DIVINE  DESIGN 

"No  wind  can  drive  my  bark  astray 
nor  change  the  tide  of  destiny." 


There  is  for  each  man,  perfect  self-expression. 
There  is  a  place  which  he  is  to  fill  and  no  one  else 
can  fill,  something  which  he  is  to  do,  which  no  one 
else  can  do;  it  is  his  destiny! 

This  achievement  is  held,  a  perfect  idea  in  Di- 
vine Mind,  awaiting  man's  recognition.  As  the 
imaging  faculty  is  the  creative  faculty,  it  is  neces- 
sary for  man  to  see  the  idea,  before  it  can  mani- 
fest. 

So  man's  highest  demand  is  for  the  Divine  De- 
sign of  his  life. 

He  may  not  have  the  faintest  conception  of 
what  it  is,  for  there  is,  possibly,  some  marvelous 
talent,  hidden  deep  within  him. 

His  demand  should  be:  "Infinite  Spirit,  open 
the  way  for  the  Divine  Design  of  my  life  to  mani- 
fest; let  the  genius  within  me  now  be  released;  let 
me  see  clearly  the  perfect  plan.  " 

75 


76         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

The  perfect  plan  includes  health,  wealth,  love 
and  perfect  self-expression.  This  is  the  square  of 
life,  which  brings  pertect  happiness.  When  one 
has  made  this  demand,  he  may  find  great  changes 
taking  place  in  his  life,  for  nearly  every  man  has 
wandered  far  from  the  Divine  Design. 

I  know,  in  one  woman's  case,  it  was  as  though  a 
cyclone  had  struck  her  affairs,  but  readjustments 
came  quickly,  and  new  and  wonderful  conditions 
took  the  place  of  old  ones. 

Perfect  self-expression  will  never  be  labor;  but 
of  such  absorbing  interest  that  it  will  seem  almost 
like  play.  The  student  knows,  also,  as  man  comes 
into  the  world  financed  by  God,  the  supply  needed 
for  his  perfect  self-expression  will  be  at  hand. 

Many  a  genius  has  struggled  for  years  with  the 
problem  of  supply,  when  his  spoken  word,  and 
faith,  would  have  released  quickly,  the  necessary 
funds. 

For  example:  After  the  class,  one  day,  a  man 
came  to  me  and  handed  me  a  cent. 

He  said:  "I  have  just  seven  cents  in  the  world, 
and  I'm  going  to  give  you  one;  for  I  have  faith  in 
the  power  of  your  spoken  word.  I  want  you  to 
speak  the  word  for  my  perfect  self-expression  and 
prosperity." 

I  "spoke  the  word,"  and  did  not  see  him  again 
until  a  year  later.  He  came  in  one  day,  successful 
and  happy,  with  a  roll  of  yellow  bills  in  his  pocket. 
He  said,  "Immediately  after  you  spoke  the  word,  I 
had  a  position  offered  me  in  a  distant  city,  and  am 
now  demonstrating  health,  happiness  and  supply." 

A  woman's  perfect  self-expression  may  be   in 


Perfect  Self-Expression  or  The  Divine  Design         11 

becoming  a  perfect  wife,  a  perfect  mother,  a  per- 
fect home-maker  and  not  necessarily  in  having  a 
pubHc  career. 

Demand  definite  leads,  and  the  way  will  be 
made  easy  and  successful. 

One  should  not  visualize  or  force  a  mental  pic- 
ture.  When  he  demands  the  Divine  Design  to 
come  into  his  conscious  mind,  he  will  receive 
flashes  of  inspiration,  and  begin  to  see  himself 
making  some  great  accomplishment.  This  is  the 
picture,  or  idea,  he  must  hold  without  wavering. 

The  thing  man  seeks  is  seeking  him  — the  tele- 
phone was  seeking  Bell! 

Parents  should  never  force  careers  and  profes- 
sions upon  their  children.  With  a  knowledge  of 
spiritual  Truth,  the  Divine  Plan  could  be  spoken 
for,  early  in  childhood,  or  prenatally. 

A  prenatal  treatment  should  be:  "Let  the  God 
in  this  child  have  perfect  expression;  let  the  Divine 
Design  of  his  mind,  body  and  affairs  be  made 
manifest  throughout  his  life,  throughout  eternity." 

God's  will  he  done,  not  man's;  God's  pattern, 
not  man's  pattern,  is  the  command  we  find  run- 
ning through  all  the  scriptures,  and  the  Bible  is  a 
Jbook  dealing  with  the  science  of  the  mind.  It  is  a 
book  telling  man  how  to  release  his  soul  (or  sub- 
CiDiiscious  mindyTromrlSondage. 

The  battles  described  are  pictures  of  man  wag- 
ing war  against  mortal  thoughts.  "A  man's  foes 
shall  be  they  of  his  own  household."  Every  man  is 
Jehoshaphat,  and  every  man  is  David,  who  slays 
Goliath  (mortal  thinking)  with  the  little  white 
stone  (faith). 


78          The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

So  man  must  be  careful  that  he  is  not  the 
"wicked  and  slothful  servant"  who  buried  his 
talent.  There  is  a  terrible  penalty  to  be  paid  for 
not  using  one's  ability. 

Often  fear  stands  between  man  and  his  perfect 
self-expression.  Stage-fright  has  hampered  many  a 
genius.  This  may  be  overcome  by  the  spoken 
word,  or  treatment.  The  individual  then  loses  all 
self-consciousness,  and  feels  simply  that  he  is  a 
channel  for  Infinite  Intelligence  to  express  Itself 
through. 

He  is  under  direct  inspiration,  fearless,  and 
confident;  for  he  feels  that  it  is  the  "Father  within" 
him  who  does  the  work. 

A  young  boy  came  often  to  my  class  with  his 
mother.  He  asked  me  to  "speak  the  word"  for  his 
coming  examinations  at  school. 

I  told  him  to  make  the  statement:  "I  am  one 
with  Infinite  Intelligence.  I  know  everything  I 
should  know  on  this  subject."  He  had  an  excellent 
knowledge  of  history,  but  was  not  sure  of  his  arith- 
metic. I  saw  him  afterwards,  and  he  said:  "I  spoke 
the  word  for  my  arithmetic,  and  passed  with  the 
highest  honors;  but  thought  I  could  depend  on 
myself  for  history,  and  got  a  very  poor  mark." 
Man  often  receives  a  set-back  when  he  is  "too  sure 
of  himself,"  which  means  he  is  trusting  to  his 
personality  and  not  the  "Father  within." 

Another  one  of  my  students  gave  me  an  exam- 
ple of  this.  She  took  an  extended  trip  abroad  one 
summer,  visiting  many  countries,  where  she  was 
ignorant  of  the  languages.  She  was  calling  for 
guidance  and  protection  every  minute,  and  her 
affairs  went  smoothly  and  miraculously.  Her  lug- 


Perfect  Self-Expression  or  The  Divine  Design         79 

gage  was  never  delayed  nor  lost!  Accommodations 
were  always  ready  for  her  at  the  best  hotels;  and 
she  had  perfect  service  wherever  she  went.  She  re- 
turned to  New  York.  Knowing  the  language,  she 
felt  God  was  no  longer  necessary,  so  looked  after 
her  affairs  in  an  ordinary  manner. 

Everything  went  wrong,  her  trunks  delayed, 
amid  inharmony  and  confusion.  The  student  must 
form  the  habit  of  "practicing  the  Presence  of  God" 
every  minute.  "In  all  thy  ways  acknowledge  him; " 
nothing  is  too  small  or  too  great. 

Sometimes  an  insignificant  incident  may  be  the 
turning  point  in  a  man's  life. 

Robert  Fulton,  watching  some  boiling  water, 
simmering  in  a  tea  kettle,  saw  a  steamboat! 

I  have  seen  a  student,  often,  keep  back  his 
demonstration,  through  resistance,  or  pointing 
the  way. 

He  pins  his  faith  to  one  channel  only,  and  dic- 
tates just  the  way  he  desires  the  manifestation  to 
come,  which  brings  things  to  a  standstill. 

"My  way,  not  your  way!"  is  the  command  of 
Infinite  Intelligence.  Like  all  Power,  be  it  steam 
or  electricity,  it  must  have  a  nonresistant  engine  or 
instrument  to  work  through,  and  man  is  that  en- 
gine or  instrument. 

Over  and  over  again,  man  is  told  to  "stand  still". 
"Oh  Judah,  fear  not;  but  to-morrow  go  out  against 
them,  for  the  Lord  will  be  with  you.  You  shall  not 
need  to  fight  this  battle;  set  yourselves,  stand  ye 
still,  and  see  the  salvation  of  the  Lord  with  you." 

We  see  this  in  the  incidents  of  the  two  thousand 
dollars  coming  to  the  woman  through  the  landlord 
when  she  became  nonresistant  and  undisturbed. 


80          The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

and  the  woman  who  won  the  man's  love  "after  all 
suffering  had  ceased." 

The  student's  goal  is  Poise!  Poise  is  Power,  for  it 
gives  God- Power  a  chance  to  rusE  through  man, 
_to  "will  and  to  do  Its  good  pleasure."  ~^ 

Poised,  he  thinks~cTearTy,  and  makes  "right  de- 
cisions  quickly."  "He  never  misses  a  Trick." 

Anger  blurs  the  visions,  poisons  the  blood,  is  the 
root  of  many  diseases,  and  causes  wrong  decision 
leading  to  failure^ 

It  has  been  named  one  of  the  worst  "sins,"  as  its 
reaction  is  so  harmful.  The  student  learns  that  in 
metaphysics  sin  has  a  much  broader  meaning  than 
in  the  old  teaching.  "Whatsoever  is  not  of  faith  is 
sin." 

He  finds  that  fear  and  worry  are  deadly  sins. 
They  are  inverted  faith,  and  through  distorted 
mental  pictures,  bring  to  pass  the  thing  he  fears. 
His  work  is  to  drive  out  these  enemies  (from  the 
subconscious  mind).  "When  Man  \s  fearless  he  is 
finished!"  Maeterlinck  says,  that  "Man  is  God 
afraid." 

So,  as  we  read  in  the  previous  chapters:  Man 
can  only  vanquish  fear  by  walking  up  to  the  thing 
he  is  afraid  of.  When  Jehoshaphat  and  his  army 
prepared  to  meet  the  enemy,  singing  "Praise  the 
Lord,  for  his  mercy  endureth  forever,"  they  found 
their  enemies  had  destroyed  each  other,  and  there 
was  nothing  to  fight. 

For  example:  A  woman  asked  a  friend  to  deliver 
a  message  to  another  friend.  The  woman  feared  to 
give  the  message,  as  the  reasoning  mind  said, 
"Don't  get  mixed-up  in  this  affair,  don't  g^ve  that 
message." 


Perfect  Self-Expression  or  The  Divine  Design         81 

She  was  troubled  in  spirit,  for  she  had  given  her 
promise.  At  last,  she  determined  to  "walk  up  to 
the  lion,"  and  call  on  the  law  of  divine  protection. 
She  met  the  friend  to  whom  she  was  to  deliver  the 
message.  She  opened  her  mouth  to  speak  it,  when 
her  friend  said,  "So-and-So  has  left  town."  This 
made  it  unnecessary  to  give  the  message,  as  the 
situation  depended  upon  the  person  being  in 
town.  As  she  was  willing  to  do  it,  she  was  not 
obliged  to;  as  she  did  not  fear,  the  situation  van- 
ished. 

The  student  often  delays  his  demonstration 
through  a  belief  in  incompletion.  He  should  make 
this  statement: 

"In  Divine  Mind  there  is  only  completion,  there- 
fore, my  demonstration  is  completed.  My  perfect 
work,  my  perfect  home,  my  perfect  health." 
Whatever  he  demands  are  perfect  ideas  registered 
in  Divine  Mind,  and  must  manifest,  "under  grace 
in  a  perfect  way."  He  gives  thanks  he  has  already 
received  on  the  invisible,  and  makes  active  prepa- 
ration for  receiving  on  the  visible. 

One  of  my  students  was  in  need  of  a  financial 
demonstration.  She  came  to  me  and  asked  why  it 
was  not  completed. 

I  replied:  "Perhaps,  you  are  in  the  habit  of 
leaving  things  unfinished,  and  the  subconscious 
has  gotten  into  the  habit  of  not  completing  (as  the 
without,  so  the  within)." 

She  said,  "You  are  right.  I  often  begin  things 
and  never  finish  them. 

"I'll  go  home  and  finish  something  I  com- 
menced weeks  ago,  and  I  know  it  will  be  symbolic 
of  my  demonstration." 


82         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

So  she  sewed  assiduously,  and  the  article  was 
soon  completed.  Shortly  after,  the  money  came  in 
a  most  curious  manner. 

Her  husband  was  paid  his  salary  twice  that 
month.  He  told  the  people  of  their  mistake,  and 
they  sent  word  to  keep  it. 

When  man  asks,  believing,  he  must  receive,  for 
God  creates  His  own  channels! 

I  have  been  sometimes  asked,  "Suppose  one  has 
several  talents,  how  is  he  to  know  which  one  to 
choose?"  Demand  to  be  shown  definitely.  Say:  "In- 
finite Spirit,  give  me  a  definite  lead,  reveal  to  me 
my  perfect  self-expression,  show  me  which  talent  I 
am  to  make  use  of  now." 

I  have  known  people  to  suddenly  enter  a  new 
line  of  work,  and  be  fully  equipped,  with  little  or 
no  training.  So  make  the  statement:  "I^^jn/ull^ 
equipped  for  the  Divine  Plan  of  my  life, "  and  be 
fearless  in  grasping  opportunities. 

Some  people  are  cheerful  givers,  but  bad  re- 
ceivers. They  refuse  gifts  through  pride,  or  some 
negative  reason,  thereby  blocking  their  channels, 
and  invariably  find  themselves  eventually  with  lit- 
tle or  nothing.  For  example:  A  woman  who  had 
given  away  a  great  deal  of  money,  had  a  gift 
offered  her  of  several  thousand  dollars.  She  re- 
fused to  take  it,  saying  she  did  not  need  it.  Shortly 
after  that,  her  finances  were  "tied  up,"  and  she 
found  herself  in  debt  for  that  amount.  Man  should 
receive  gracefully  the  bread  returning  to  him  upon 
the  water  — freely  ye  have  given,  freely  ye  shall 
receive. 


There  is  always  the  perfect  balance  of  giving 


Perfect  Self-Expression  or  The  Divine  Design         83 

and  receiving,  and  though  man  should  give  vs^ith- 
out  thinking  of  returns,  he  violates  law  if  he  does 
not  accept  the  returns  which  come  to  him;  for  all 
gifts  are  from  God,  man  being  merely  the  channel. 

A  thought  of  lack  should  never  be  held  over  the 
giver. 

For  example:  When  the  man  gave  me  the  one 
cent,  I  did  not  say:  "Poor  man,  he  cannot  afford 
to  give  me  that."  I  saw  him  rich  and  prosperous, 
with  his  supply  pouring  in.  It  was  this  thought 
which  brought  it.  If  one  has  been  a  bad  receiver, 
he  must  become  a  good  one,  and  take  even  a 
postage  stamp  if  it  is  given  him,  and  open  up  his 
channels  for  receiving. 

The  Lord  loveth  a  cheerful  receiver,  as  well  as  a 
cheerful  giver. 

I  have  often  been  asked  why  one  man  is  born 
rich  and  healthy,  and  another  poor  and  sick. 

Where  there  is  an  effect  there  is  always  a  cause; 
there  is  no  such  thing  as  chance. 

This  question  is  answered  through  the  law  of 
reincarnation.  Man  goes  through  many  births  and 
deaths,  until  he  knows  the  truth  which  sets  him 


free. 

He  is  drawn  back  to  the  earth  plane  through 
unsatisfied  desire,  to  pay  his  Karmic  debts,  or  to 
"fulfill  his  destiny." 

The  man  born  rich  and  healthy  has  had  pic- 
tures in  his  subconscious  mind,  in  his  past  life,  of 
health  and  riches;  and  the  poor  and  sick  man,  of 
disease  and  poverty.  Man  manifests,  on  any  plane, 
the  sum  total  of  his  subconscious  beliefs. 

However,  birth  and  death  are  man-made  laws, 


84         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

for  the  "wages  of  sin  is  death";  the  Adamic  fall  in 
consciousness  through  the  belief  in  two  powers. 
The  real  man,  spiritual  man,  is  birthless  and 
deathless!  He  never  was  born  and  has  never  died  — 
"As  he  was  in  the  beginning,  he  is  now,  and  ever 
shall  be!" 

So  through  the  truth,  man  is  set  free  from  the 
law  of  Karma,  sin  and  death,  and  manifests  the 
man  made  in  "His  image  and  likeness."  Man's 
freedom  comes  through  fulfilling  his  destiny, 
bringing  into  manifestation  the  Divine  Design  of 
his  life. 

His  lord  will  say  unto  him:  "Well  done  thou 
good  and  faithful  servant,  thou  hast  been  faithful 
over  a  few  things,  I  will  make  thee  ruler  over  many 
things  (death  itself);  enter  thou  into  the  joy  of  thy 
Lord  (eternal  life)." 


DENIALS  AND  AFFIRMATIONS 


"Thou  shalt  also  decree  a  thing,  and  it  shall  be 
established  unto  thee." 

All  the  good  that  is  to  be  made  manifest  in 
man's  life  is  already  an  accomplished  fact  in  divine 
mind,  and  is  released  through  man's  recognition, 
or  spoken  word,  so  he  must  be  careful  to  decree 
that  only  the  Divine  Idea  be  made  manifest,  for 
often,  he  decrees,  through  his  "idle  words,"  failure 
or  misfortune. 

It  is,  therefore,  of  the  utmost  importance,  to 
word  one's  demands  correctly,  as  stated  in  a  pre- 
vious chapter. 

If  one  desires  a  home,  friend,  position  or  any 
other  good  thing,  make  the  demand  for  the  "di- 
vine selection." 

For  example:  "Infinite  Spirit,  open  the  way  for 
my  right  home,  my  right  friend,  my  right  position. 
I  give  thanks  it  now  manifests  under  grace  in  a 
perfect  way. " 

The  latter  part  of  the  statement  is  most  impor- 
tant. For  example:  I  knew  a  woman  who  de- 
manded a  thousand  dollars.  Her  daughter  was 
injured  and  they  received  a  thousand  dollars  in- 
demnity, so  it  did  not  come  in  a  "perfect  way." 

85 


86  The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

The  demand  should  have  been  worded  in  this 
way:  "Infinite  Spirit,  I  give  thanks  that  the  one 
thousand  dollars,  which  is  mine  by  divine  right,  is 
now  released,  and  reaches  me  under  grace,  in  a 
perfect  way." 

As  one  grows  in  a  financial  consciousness,  he 
should  demand  that  the  enormous  sums  of  money, 
which  are  his  by  divine  right,  reach  him  under 
grace,  in  perfect  ways. 

It  is  impossible  for  man  to  release  more  than  he 
thinks  is  possible,  for  one  is  bound  by  the  limited 
expectancies  of  the  subconscious.  He  must  enlarge 
his  expectancies  in  order  to  receive  in  a  larger 
way. 

Man  so  often  limits  himself  in  his  demands.  For 
example:  A  student  made  the  demand  for  six 
hundred  dollars,  by  a  certain  date.  He  did  receive 
it,  but  heard  afterwards,  that  he  came  very  near 
receiving  a  thousand  dollars,  but  he  was  given  just 
six  hundred,  as  the  result  of  his  spoken  word. 

"They  limited  the  Holy  One  of  Isreal."  Wealth 
is  a  matter  of  consciousness.  The  French  have  a 
legend  giving  an  example  of  this.  A  poor  man  was 
walking  along  a  road  when  he  met  a  traveler,  who 
stopped  him  and  said:  "My  good  friend,  I  see  you 
are  poor.  Take  this  gold  nugget,  sell  it,  and  you 
will  be  rich  all  your  days." 

The  man  was  overjoyed  at  his  good  fortune,  and 
took  the  nugget  home.  He  immediately  found 
work  and  became  so  prosperous  that  he  did  not 
sell  the  nugget.  Years  passed,  and  he  became  a 
very  rich  man.  One  day  he  met  a  poor  man  on  the 
road.  He  stopped  him  and  said:  "My  good  friend, 


Denials  and  Affirmations         87 

I  will  give  you  this  gold  nugget,  which,  if  you  sell, 
will  make  you  rich  for  life."  The  mendicant  took 
the  nugget,  had  it  valued,  and  found  it  was  only 
brass.  So  we  see,  the  first  man  became  rich 
through  feeling  rich,  thinking  the  nugget  was 
gold. 

Every  man  has  within  himself  a  gold  nugget;  it 
is  his  consciousness  of  gold,  of  opulence,  which 
brings  riches  into  his  life.  In  making  his  demands, 
man  begins  at  his  journey's  end,  that  is,  he  de- 
clares he  has  already  received.  ''Before  ye  call  I 
shall  answer." 

Continually  affirming  establishes  the  belief  in 
the  subconscious. 

It  would  not  be  necessary  to  make  an  affirma- 
tion more  than  once  if  one  had  perfect  faith!  One 
should  not  plead  or  supplicate,  but  give  thanks 
repeatedly,  that  he  has  received. 

"The  desert  shall  rejoice  and  blossom  as  the 
rose."  This  rejoicing  which  is  yet  in  the  desert 
(state  of  consciousness)  opens  the  way  for  release. 
The  Lord's  Prayer  is  in  the  form  of  command  and 
demand,  Give  us  this  day  our  daily  bread,  and 
forgive  us  our  debts  as  we  forgive  our  debtors," 
and  ends  in  praise,  'Tor  thine  is  the  Kingdom  and 
the  Power  and  the  Glory,  forever.  Amen."  "Con- 
cerning the  works  of  my  hands,  command  ye  me." 
So  prayer  is  command  and  demand,  praise  and 
thanksgiving.  The  student's  work  is  in  making 
himself  believe  that  "with  God  all  things  are  pos- 
sible." 

This  is  easy  enough  to  state  in  the  abstract,  but 
a  little  more   difficult   when  confronted  with   a 


88         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

problem.  For  example:  It  was  necessary  for  a 
woman  to  demonstrate  a  large  sum  of  money  with- 
in a  stated  time.  She  knew  she  must  do  something 
to  get  a  realization  (for  realization  is  manifesta- 
tion), and  she  demanded  a  "lead." 

She  was  walking  through  a  department  store, 
when  she  saw  a  very  beautiful  pink  enamel  paper- 
cutter.  She  felt  the  "pull"  towards  it.  The  thought 
came.  "I  haven't  a  paper  cutter  good  enough  to 
open  letters  containing  large  cheques." 

So  she  bought  the  papercutter,  which  the  rea- 
soning mind  would  have  called  an  extravagance. 
When  she  held  it  in  her  hand,  she  had  a  flash  of  a 
picture  of  herself  opening  an  envelope  containing 
a  large  cheque,  and  in  a  few  weeks,  she  received 
the  money.  The  pink  papercutter  was  her  bridge 
of  active  faith. 

Many  stories  are  told  of  the  power  of  the  subcon- 
scious when  directed  in  faith. 

For  example:  A  man  was  spending  the  night  in 
a  farmhouse.  The  windows  of  the  room  had  been 
nailed  down,  and  in  the  middle  of  the  night  he  felt 
suffocated  and  made  his  way  in  the  dark  to  the 
window.  He  could  not  open  it,  so  he  smashed  the 
pane  with  his  fist,  drew  in  draughts  of  fine  fresh 
air,  and  had  a  wonderful  night's  sleep. 

The  next  morning,  he  found  he  had  smashed 
the  glass  of  a  bookcase  and  the  window  had  re- 
mained closed  during  the  whole  night.  He  had 
supplied  himself  with  oxygen,  simply  by  his 
thought  of  oxygen. 

When  a  student  starts  out  to  demonstrate,  he 


Denials  and  Affirmations         89 

should  never  turn  back.  "Let  not  that  man  who 
wavers  think  that  he  shall  receive  anything  of  the 
Lord." 

A  colored  student  once  made  this  wonderful 
statement,  "When  I  asks  the  Father  for  anything, 
I  puts  my  foot  down,  and  I  says:  Father,  I'll  take 
nothing  less  than  I've  asked  for,  but  more!"  So 
man  should  never  compromise:  "Having  done  all 
—  Stand."  This  is  sometimes  the  most  difficult 
time  of  demonstrating.  The  temptation  comes  to 
give  up,  to  turn  back,  to  compromise. 

"He  also  serves  who  only  stands  and  waits." 

Demonstrations  often  come  at  the  eleventh  hour 
because  man  then  lets  go,  that  is,  stops  reasoning, 
and  Infinite  Intelligence  has  a  chance  to  work. 

"Man's  dreary  desires  are  answered  drearily, 
and  his  impatient  desires,  long  delayed  or  violently 
fulfilled. 

For  example:  A  woman  asked  me  why  it  was  she 
was  constantly  losing  or  breaking  her  glasses. 

We  found  she  often  said  to  herself  and  others 
with  vexation,  "I  wish  I  could  get  rid  of  my 
glasses."  So  her  impatient  desire  was  violently  ful- 
filled. What  she  should  have  demanded  was  per- 
fect eye-sight,  but  what  she  registered  in  the  sub- 
conscious was  simply  the  impatient  desire  to  be  rid 
of  her  glasses;  so  they  were  continually  being 
broken  or  lost. 

Two  attitudes  of  mind  cause  loss:  depreciation, 
as  in  the  case  of  the  woman  who  did  not  appre- 
ciate her  husband,  or  fear  of  loss,  which  makes  a 
picture  of  loss  in  the  subconscious. 


90         The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

When  a  student  is  able  to  let  go  of  his  problem 
(cast  his  burden)  he  will  have  instantaneous  mani- 
festation. 

For  example:  A  woman  was  out  during  a  very 
stormy  day  and  her  umbrella  was  blown  inside- 
out.  She  was  about  to  make  a  call  on  some  people 
whom  she  had  never  met  and  she  did  not  wish  to 
make  her  first  appearance  with  a  dilapidated  um- 
brella. She  could  not  throw  it  away,  as  it  did  not 
belong  to  her.  So  in  desperation,  she  exclaimed: 
"Oh,  God,  you  take  charge  of  this  umbrella,  I 
don't  know  what  to  do." 

A  moment  later,  a  voice  behind  her  said: 
"Lady,  do  you  want  your  umbrella  mended?" 
There  stood  an  umbrella  mender. 

She  replied,  "Indeed,  I  do." 

The  man  mended  the  umbrella,  while  she  went 
into  the  house  to  pay  her  call,  and  when  she 
returned,  she  had  a  good  umbrella.  So  there  is 
always  an  umbrella  mender  at  hand,  on  man's 
pathway,  when  one  puts  the  umbrella  (or  situa- 
tion) in  God's  Hands. 

One  should  always  follow  a  denial  with  an  affir- 
mation. 

For  example:  I  was  called  on  the  'phone  late  one 
night  to  treat  a  man  whom  I  had  never  seen.  He 
was  apparently  very  ill.  I  made  the  statement:  "I 
deny  this  appearance  of  disease.  It  is  unreal, 
therefore  cannot  register  in  his  consciousness;  this 
man  is  a  perfect  idea  in  Divine  Mind,  pure  sub- 
stance expressing  perfection." 

There  is  no  time  or  space,  in  Divine  Mind, 
therefore  the  word  reaches  instantly  its  destination 


Denials  and  Affirmations         91 

and  does  not  "return  void."  I  have  treated  pa- 
tients in  Europe  and  have  found  that  the  result 
was  instantaneous. 

I  am  asked  so  often  the  difference  between 
visuaHzing  and  visioning.  Visuahzing  is  a  mental 
process  governed  by  the  reasoning  or  conscious 
mind;  visioning  is  a  spiritual  process,  governed  by 
intuition,  or  the  superconscious  mind.  The  stu- 
dent should  train  his  mind  to  receive  these  flashes 
of  inspiration,  and  work  out  the  "divine  pictures," 
through  definite  leads.  When  a  man  can  say,  "I 
desire  only  that  which  God  desires  for  me,"  his 
false  desires  fade  from  the  consciousness,  and  a 
new  set  of  blueprints  is  given  him  by  the  Master 
Architect,  the  God  within.  God's  plan  for  each 
man  transcends  the  limitation  of  the  reasoning 
mind,  and  is  always  the  square  of  life,  containing 
health,  wealth,  love  and  perfect  self-expression. 
Many  a  man  is  building  for  himself  in  imagination 
a  bungalow  when  he  should  be  building  a  palace. 

If  a  student  tries  to  force  a  demonstration 
(through  the  reasoning  mind)  he  brings  it  to  a 
standstill.  "I  will  hasten  it,"  saith  the  Lord.  He 
should  act  only  through  intuition,  or  definite 
leads.  "Rest  in  the  Lord  and  wait  patiently.  Trust 
also  in  him,  and  he  will  bring  it  to  pass." 

I  have  seen  the  law  work  in  the  most  astonish- 
ing manner.  For  example:  A  student  stated  that  it 
was  necessary  for  her  to  have  a  hundred  dollars  by 
the  following  day.  It  was  a  debt  of  vital  impor- 
tance which  had  to  be  met.  I  "spoke  the  word," 
declaring  Spirit  was  "never  too  late"  and  that  the 
supply  was  at  hand. 


92  The  Game  of  Life  and  How  to  Play  It 

That  evening  she  phoned  me  of  the  miracle. 
She  said  that  the  thought  came  to  her  to  go  to  her 
safe-deposit  box  at  the  bank  to  examine  some 
papers.  She  looked  over  the  papers,  and  at  the 
bottom  of  the  box,  was  a  new  one  hundred  dollar- 
bill.  She  was  astounded,  and  said  she  knew  she 
had  never  put  it  there,  for  she  had  gone  through 
the  papers  many  times.  It  may  have  been  a  ma- 
terialization, as  Jesus  Christ  materialized  the 
loaves  and  fishes.  Man  will  reach  the  stage  where 
his  "word  is  made  flesh,"  or  materialized,  instant- 
ly. "The  fields,  ripe  with  the  harvest,"  will  mani- 
fest immediately,  as  in  all  of  the  miracles  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

There  is  a  tremendous  power  alone  in  the  name 
Jesus  Christ.  It  stands  for  Truth  Made  Manifest. 
He  said,  "Whatsoever  ye  ask  the  Father,  in  my 
name,  he  will  give  it  to  you." 

The  power  of  this  name  raises  the  student  into 
the  fourth  dimension,  where  he  is  freed  from  all 
astral  and  psychic  influences,  and  he  becomes 
"unconditioned  and  absolute,  as  God  Himself  is 
unconditioned  and  absolute." 

I  have  seen  many  healings  accomplished  by 
using  the  words,  "In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ." 

Christ  was  both  person  and  principle;  and  the 
Christ  within  each  man  is  his  Redeemer  and  Sal- 
vation. 

The  Christ  within,  is  his  own  fourth  dimension- 
al self,  the  man  made  in  God's  image  and  likeness. 
This  is  the  self  which  has  never  failed,  never 
known  sickness  or  sorrow,  was  never  born  and  has 
never  died.  It  is  the  "resurrection  and  the  life"  of 


Denials  and  Affirmations         93 

each  man!  "No  man  cometh  to  the  Father  save  by 
the  Son,"  means,  that  God,  the  Universal,  v^orking 
on  the  place  of  the  particular,  becomes  the  Christ 
in  man;  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  means  God-in- 
action. So  daily,  man  is  manifesting  the  Trinity  of 
Father,  Son  and  Holy  Ghost. 

Man  should  make  an  art  of  thinking.  The  Mas- 
ter Thinker  is  an  artist  and  is  careful  to  paint  only 
the  divine  designs  upon  the  canvas  of  his  mind; 
and  he  paints  these  pictures  with  masterly  strokes 
of  powder  and  decision,  having  perfect  faith  that 
there  is  no  pov^er  to  mar  their  perfection  and  that 
they  shall  manifest  in  his  life  the  ideal  made  real. 

All  power  is  given  man  (through  right  thinking) 
to  bring  his  heaven  upon  his  earth,  and  this  is  the 
goal  of  the  "Game  of  Life.  " 

The  simple  rules  are  fearless  faith,  nonresis- 
tance  and  love! 

May  each  reader  be  now  freed  from  that  thing 
which  has  held  him  in  bondage  through  the  ages, 
standing  between  him  and  his  own,  and  "know  the 
Truth  which  makes  him  free"  — free  to  fulfill  his 
destiny,  to  bring  into  manifestation  the  "Divine 
Design  of  his  life,  Health,  Wealth,  Love  and  Per- 
fect Self -Expression."  "Be  ye  transformed  by  the 
renewing  of  your  mind." 


DENIALS  AND  AFFIRMATIONS 


(For  Prosperity) 
God  is  my  unfailing  supply,  and  large  sums  of 
money  come  to  me  quickly,  under  grace,  in  per- 
fect ways. 

(For  Right  Conditions) 
Every    plan    my    Father    in    heaven    has    not 
planned,  shall  be  dissolved  and  dissipated,   and 
the  Divine  Idea  now  comes  to  pass. 

(For  Right  Conditions) 
Only  that  which  is  true  of  God  is  true  of  me,  for 
I  and  the  Father  are  ONE. 

(For  Faith) 
As  I  am  one  with  God,  I  am  one  with  my  good, 
for  God  is  both  the  Giver  and  the  Gift.  I  cannot 
separate  the  Giver  from  the  gift, 

(For  Right  Conditions) 
Divine  Love  now  dissolves  and  dissipates  every 
wrong  condition  in  my  mind,  body  and  affairs. 
Divine  Love  is  the  most  powerful  chemical  in  the 
universe,  and  dissolves  everything  which  is  not  of 
itself! 

(For  Health) 
Divine    Love    floods    my    consciousness    with 
health,  and  every  cell  in  my  body  is  filled  with 
light. 

94 


(For  the  Eyesight) 
My  eyes  are  God's  eyes,  I  see  with  the  eyes  of 
spirit.  I  see  clearly  the  open  way;   there  are  no 
obstacles  on  my  pathway.  I  see  clearly  the  perfect 
plan. 

(For  Guidance) 
I  am  divinely  sensitive  to  my  intuitive  leads,  and 
give  instant  obedience  to  Thy  will. 

(For  the  Hearing) 
My  ears  are  God's  ears,  I  hear  with  the  ears  of 
spirit.  I  am  nonresistant  and  am  willing  to  be  led. 
I  hear  glad  tidings  of  great  joy. 

(For  Right  Work) 
/  have  a  perfect  work 

In  a  perfect  way; 
I  give  a  perfect  service 

For  perfect  pay. 

(For  Freedom  from  all  Bondage) 
/  cast  this  burden  on  the  Christ  within,  and  I  go 
free! 


95 


/ 


(d 


yyne  secret 

of  her  success  was  that 

she  was  always  herself,  .  .  colloquial 

informal,  friendly,  and  humorous. 

She  herself  was  very  spiritual .  .  . 

and  taught  by  familiar,  practical,  and 

everyday  examples.'' 


Emmet  Fox 

—  On  Florence  Scovel  Shinn  — 


Books  by  FLORENCE  SCOVEL  SHINN 

THE  GAME  OF  LIFE  &  HOW  TO  PLAY  IT 

THE  POWER  OF  THE  SPOKEN  WORD 

YOUR  WORD  IS  YOUR  WAND 

THE  SECRET  DOOR  TO  SUCCESS 

THE  WRITINGS  OF  FLORENCE  SCOVEL  SHINN  (1  Vol.  Edition) 

THE  GAME  OF  LIFE  ■  Cassette  Tape 


DEVORSS  &  COMPANY,  Publishers 
Marina  del  Rey,  California  90294-0550 


90000 

llllllllliilllll 


9  780875"162577 
ISBN    D-fl7Slb 


